[Music]
We have been experiencing uh one of the
biggest and largest momentum markets
that we have had since the late '90s.
>> I think we are in a little bit of a wait
and see moment. The volatility and the
rotation that we're seeing among single
names is healthy. There's a chance we
get a significant 5 to 10% pullback.
Looking into next year, we are more
optimistic. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, adding to three days of
gains, equity markets advancing as the
end of the government shutdown nears.
The bond market reopening with yields
falling on weaker than expected economic
data. and President Trump preparing to
host a dinner with Wall Street
executives, including JP Morgan's Jamie
Diamond.
>> It's sort of an interesting mix of bed
fellows, considering that President
Trump has a lovehate relationship with
Wall Street, with New York City, and
particularly with Jaime Diamond. It
comes after a series of different
dinners that he's held with other
executives. Think about the tech
executives he held a dinner with back in
September. a question of what role
business plays in this administration
and whether this is potentially
President Trump's effort to get a
channel check on the consumer and on
credit extension.
>> Do you think we start a conversation
about a 50-year mortgage with the bank
executives later on this evening?
>> I can imagine that might come up and if
not President Trump, probably some of
these bank executives.
>> Got to talk about a state of the US
economy as well. Some mixed data in the
last 24 hours. ADP out with a weekly
number not great. Small business
confidence not fantastic either. Bond
markets reopening picking up on a
temperature of that. bond yields lower
across the board.
>> What's fascinating is bond yields are
lower and yet stocks are higher. So you
might say, well on one hand the bond
market is looking at the weakness. On
the other hand, stock markets are
looking past that to the boom that
they're expecting in the first quarter
of next year. Pick your poison. Right
now it seems like a lovely beneficial uh
mix given the fact that the government's
reopening and people are embracing the
idea the Fed will have the confidence to
cut rates, but hard to get a clear read
on exactly what the implication is for
risk assets and for markets more
broadly. Well, let's go through what
we're hearing from corporate America and
corporations around the world. AMD
talking up data center revenue. Honhe
out with a solid outlook as well. That's
what's supporting this equity market
story.
>> What's fascinating is a week ago
yesterday, we got AMD earnings and they
came out and they were better than
expected. The forecasts were better than
expected and the shares dropped. It
highlights that after a dinner last
night, the shares are up in pre-market
trading because they could talk about
their rosy forecasts. How much does this
really speak to the fundamentals and how
much does this speak to a shift in tone
in vibes that doesn't necessarily have a
connection to anything in what these
executives are talking about?
>> The vibes are better this morning at
least. The stock is up by 5% in the
pre-market. The broader equity market
higher by 0.3%. Coming up this hour,
Matt Miskin of John Hancock as stocks
look for a fourth day of gains. John
Lieieber of Eurasia Group with the house
to vote on the reopening of the
government and Hugh Van Steinas of
Oliver Wyman on rising investor angst
over AI spending. We begin this hour
with stocks rising as investors await
the end of the government shutdown and
the release of a lot I mean a lot of
delayed data. Matt Mask of John Hancock
writing, "Bad news is bad news,
especially when it comes to the jobs
market and a Fed being hawkish.
Regardless, markets have a trade the
headlines mentality that is far from
fundamental." Matt joins us now for
more. Matt, that last line, what did you
mean by that?
>> Well, I was just talking about you guys
mentioning uh vibes here. It's it's a
vibe market and it's all driven from
settlement for the most part. And really
what we're seeing is this Jaws kind of
presenting itself from the weaker
economic data and the markets continuing
uh to advance. You know, at the end of
the day, sentiment is is a very powerful
short-term market force and we are
seeing momentum investors around the
world really allocate towards stocks
because they're rallying. uh even in
these mornings now, you're not even
getting necessarily a narrative uh of
why things are up other than it was up
yesterday. And so we really see it even
at the beginning of the week on Sundays.
It used to be Sunday Funday and now it's
Sundays are a time where markets open
and there's usually some sort of
headline that hits the markets first
thing. Uh so Monday morning we open uh
stronger and and that sets the vibe or
the tone for the week. In our view, this
is a time where you want to think about
more defensive or conservative options
for portfolios and not to really
overweight risk and over your skis in
terms of risk uh at these kind of
levels, but it's been a very strong year
for markets and we'll take it.
>> So Matt, let's unpack some of this and
let's start with the data, the jobs
data. How relevant is the jobs data to a
market that's been driven by a
technology that is arguably holding back
jobs data?
>> Yeah, John. I mean, this is the circular
feedback loop that everyone's really
highlighting is, you know, it doesn't
matter about the jobs because these
companies are running more efficient.
The AI is is helping them increase
earnings and as long as those earnings
are going up, that helps the stock
market. Makes sense, right? Well, the
missing lynchpin of this argument is
that you need the US consumer to spend.
There is no more powerful economic force
globally than the US consumer. And if
the US consumer doesn't have a job, they
can't spend. And that's where we
struggle to find this feedback loop and
why we think that the weaker jobs data
really is going to present weaker
consumer spending. You're already having
weak consumer confidence. Now, to us,
this means the Fed will end up cutting
more than the market thinks. Right now,
the Fed is actually, in our view,
overcompensating a bit because they
think they're going to be more hawk,
excuse me, dovish into 2026. So they're
being a bit more hawkish now. It is
really fascinating to see stocks really
kind of just float through that uh with
minimal impact. But in our view, the
weaker jobs data is very material for
this economy and markets in time.
>> Matt, why do you reject the argument
that in the beginning of next year we're
going to get tax rebates and all sorts
of other stimulative measures that will
really cause a boost to consumption?
>> Yeah, at the end of the day, the jobs
market, like I said, is so important.
And when you look at these whether it's
the challenger layoff announcements or
the ADP data and you look at prior
periods when it rose or when it caused
the initial jobs claims arise or the
unemployment rates arise, it's usually
about a month and a half uh lag time
between the initial, you know, layoff
announcements and when it hits the data.
And really, if you you kind of time that
out here, it's the beginning of 2026
when initial jobless claims start to
rise, the unemployment rate starts to
rise. And you think about this, the
unemployment rate, the last data point
we had was 4.3% in August. At 5%,
usually that's a recession. And we're
already likely ticking up. I mean,
yesterday Goldman Sachs said that more
likely than not, we had a 50,000 job
decline here in October. If that was
actually the release of that national
far non-farm payroll report, in our
view, that would have been a shock to
the system. Um, and so that's what I
struggle with is if if you're telling me
that there's all these, you know, kind
of good things coming in the pipeline,
the other side of this is we're still
going to be catching up on weaker data
that really hasn't been released here in
the last month or so.
>> Matt, that R word was kind of jarring
for me because I haven't heard it in so
long. And no one's talking about
recession. I mean, that seems to be
nowhere on any of the earnings calls
from corporate executives across the
spectre. We're not hearing mentions of
an economic slowdown or anything like
that. It really has come in at the
slowest pace in terms of mentions of
that going back to 2007. What does
conservative mean in terms of investing?
Does it mean just hide out in the tenure
or does it mean actually high uh value
companies that are also facing pretty
elevated valuations in addition to yes
very steady cash streams.
>> Yeah. So at the end of the day there are
companies that are growing earnings. We
do like higher quality companies.
Quality has not been in favor this year.
It's been more of a a lowquality rally,
but in our view, we would position
higher quality on the equity space. We
are looking at infrastructure related
equities, you know, across Europe right
now. You're seeing Europe rally. Uh some
of that is infrastructure related
utility type businesses that are
throwing off dividends. They've got
great earnings. So, infrastructure
related equities is one way to do it. We
are looking at uh in the bond market
like you said I mean we're still getting
nearly a 5% yield here and yields have
come down this year but if the 10-year
did drop below 4% which is support we
think there's more return potential
there. So there's still a lot of income
and return potential out of the bond
market. In our view though on the equity
side we're more neutral on US large cap.
We're overweight midcap to get more uh
diversified exposure, better valuations,
and we're underweight small cap because
frankly there's just so much
nonprofitable businesses there. So, it's
a modest below in beta.
>> Talk about vibes. The ultimate vibes
trade of the year is Europe dressing up
1% GDP as if it's the next best big
thing.
>> Matt, you really want to stay in
European equities into 26?
So we would look to tremendous strength
here and it's been this year is probably
years worth of returns and you look back
over time I mean whether it's Italy or
Spain I mean Spanish stocks who would
have thought I mean the economy is doing
great so congratulations on that front
but really the stock market there is is
trading almost like it's another entity
um and a lot of these you know markets
are trading almost like they're just
ticker symbols versus a company or a
country and we want want to be notifi we
want to be mindful of that that we're
not really just day traders here. We're
not just trading these for momentum and
we want to look at the underlying
fundamentals. But yeah, Europe is on
fire this year. European financials
breaking out here and again that is a
sentiment indicator. There is positive
vibes globally right now.
>> Amazing rally Matt. Thank you sir. Matt
Mezin of John Hancock there. Spain up by
1% today. The IBEX on the year year
today higher by more than 40%. The vibes
are good in the stock market. When you
take a look at the economic indicators
coming out of Europe, not so much. Did
you see the ZW feelings indicator from
Germany yesterday? It was terrible,
right? So, you start wondering, can the
vibes feel really good in the stock
market and really bad everywhere else
globally?
>> The estimate for growth in Europe,
according to the ECB for next year, 1%
for 2027, 1.3. There's some work to do.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide. Let's get to your Bloomberg
brief. Let's cross over to Yahara
Island. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. The House of Representatives
is set to vote on reopening the
government after the longest shutdown in
US history. The short-term funding bill
was reached after senators agreed to
compromise on a plan that will fund the
government through the end of January.
The measure would reinstate federal
workers fired during the shutdown and
guarantee back pay for furoughed
employees. Meanwhile, aids to President
Donald Trump are considering cuts to New
York City's federal funding after Zoran
Mdani's victory in the mayoral race. The
White House is waiting on Trump to
greenlight any funding freeze. It's not
yet clear what programs could be
impacted. Mdani, for his part, says he
is ready to work with the White House.
And AMD shares are jumping in the
pre-market up 5.3% after the chipmaker
released a bold forecast for sales
growth over the coming year. CEO Lisa
Sue predicts revenue growth to average
more than 35% over the next 3 to 5 years
with data center revenue on track to
rise by an average of 80% over the same
period. Sue went on to say the total AI
chip market will reach $1 trillion by
2030. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yahara later
this hour. Up next on the program,
fighting for an extension.
Democrats will continue to press the
case to say to our Republican
colleagues, you have another opportunity
to extend the Affordable Care Act tax
credits.
>> That conversation up next with John
Lieieber of Eurasia Group live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
3-day winning streak on the S&P 500
looking to make it day four. Futures
higher by 0.3% outperformance on the
NASDAQ. The NASDAQ 100 higher by 0.6. In
the bond market yesterday, Treasury
futures rallied on weaker than expected
economic data. The cash market reopens
with yields lower down by four basis
points at the front and twos at 355 10s
at 4.08%.
And the surface this morning fighting
for an extension.
House Republicans, you now have an
opportunity
to actually take some action
in an area of this healthc care crisis.
Democrats will continue to press the
case to say to our Republican
colleagues, you have another opportunity
to extend the Affordable Care Act tax
credits.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
House Democrats looking to hold the
party line ahead of an expected vote to
end the longest US government shutdown
in history. House Speaker Mike Johnson
signaling a vote could come as soon as
this afternoon. Blind Jack Fitzpatrick
joins us now for more. Jack, do you see
some smooth sailing later this afternoon
or some wrinkles? Some rough seas ahead?
I
>> I don't see smooth sailing, but it looks
like the end of the shutdown is just
about here. We've got one more critical
vote in the House. It's probably going
to be a very close vote. The
conventional wisdom that if you can get
60 votes in the Senate, you're probably
fine getting a majority in the House, I
think, holds here. But you've heard some
hard opposition from House Democratic
leadership despite the fact that this is
kind of supposed to be a bipartisan deal
on funding bills to end the shutdown. Uh
we'll look to the centrist Democrats to
see if the Republicans pick can pick up
a couple. Uh your Jared Golden from
Maine, your Marie Gluen Camp, Perez from
Washington perhaps. But this is going to
be close to the party line and that puts
even more pressure on Speaker Mike
Johnson uh after being gone for almost
two months to come up with a good solid
whip count and make sure his members are
in line because they will need almost
all of the Republican votes to be there
to end this. send it to the president's
desk and finally be able to move on from
the longest shutdown ever.
>> 42 days and maybe 43 and possibly this
goes on a little bit longer. Let's hope
it doesn't. But Jack, let's run with 42.
The Democratic leadership has had a 42
day commercial on their healthcare
effort. How's it resonating in the court
of public opinion?
>> You know, a lot of people were surprised
because the polling generally looked
pretty good for Democrats. There were a
series of polls saying who do you blame
more for the shutdown happening. It
leaned towards Republicans and favored
politically Democrats. They put a
spotlight on the issue that they wanted
to spotlight with rising health care
premiums. The Democrats definitely
established they were the ones who
wanted to extend the existing subsidies
that are set to expire at the end of
this year. That said, they couldn't hold
everybody together and now they're
riding on a promise of a vote in the
Senate, not in the House, in December
for something that hasn't yet come
together. So, there's going to be
frustration from the base on the
Democratic side with Democratic
leadership and the moderates for
allowing this to happen and not actually
getting any out anything out of this.
Though, you you at least have to give
them some credit for establishing where
they stand. This is going to be a big
issue in the midterms and Democrats at
least have some positive polling on
their side though they again have some
frustration from the base that expected
more out of this.
>> Jack, thank you sir. Jack Fitzpatrick
down in Washington DC. We'll catch up
with Jack a little bit later. So big
question for all of us tracking the
markets. When do we get the economic
data? The National Economic Council
director Kevin Hasset had this to say
the last 24 hours. I've been told that
some of the surveys were never actually
completed. So we'll never perhaps even
know what happened in that month. What
does that tell you about the October
data
>> that we're not getting CPI period full
stop? I mean or if we do it's going to
be so muddy that people are going to
really struggle to understand what
exactly it looks like. We are going to
get September uh jobs report that
probably will be number one possibly
early next week after that kind of a pot
shot whether it's retail sales whether
it's other peripheral data points that
indicate inflation. But right now it
seems like we're kind of going to be in
that fog for maybe forever when it comes
to that one month period. It's not going
to be fun for the next few months. John
Liber of Eurasia Group joins us now for
more. John, welcome to the program.
What's your understanding of the data we
will get and won't get in the coming
weeks?
>> Well, the BLS and the BEA are still shut
down, so we don't know exactly what
their plans are. Uh, I'd expect they'd
probably announce something by the end
of this week or maybe uh Monday of next
week, a timeline for when they will get
these reports out. Some of them they can
collect the data. Uh November is looking
dicey right now because this is the
reference week for payrolls. They could
always push that back a week and collect
the data next week and then they release
the November data a week later in
December. Um that's what they've done in
previous shutdowns. But we really have
no precedent for anything like what
we've seen here. In the 2018 shutdown,
uh the government was partially funded
so data releases weren't disrupted. And
in 2013, which is the closest analog, uh
you had a twoe delay and then you had
some delay in other uh some of these
reports coming out. I do think it's
right. We'll just never know some of the
things from October. Uh the employer
survey, we probably can get some pieces
of that um from October, but the
household survey, I think they probably
just won't release anything and and
we'll we'll be flying blind on that
month.
>> John, give us a reality check. I'm in
New York. We cover financial markets.
Obviously, there's a home bias. We think
this is really really important. Is it
even on the radar of people down in
Washington DC?
>> Uh no, this is not an issue that's come
up, I think, in any of the shutdown
discussions. It's a it's a distraction.
you know, this is about uh Democrats
wanting to reign in the Trump
administration. It's about health care
costs. Uh it's about a whole bunch of
other things except data. I mean, these
are kind of would be in Washington would
be considered extremely wonky issues and
no nobody on Capitol Hill is wonking out
about this stuff.
>> Yeah. But there is a larger takeaway
here, John, and I was looking at the
history of government shutdowns. There
have been six since 1990. They're
getting progressively longer. They were
2 to three days under Ronald Reagan and
George W. Bush. Under President Clinton,
it was as much as 21 days. Under
President Obama, 16 days. Under
President Trump, 1.0, 35 days. And now
here we are at 42 plus days. I'm just
wondering what this means about
Congress's ability to get anything done
and whether January 30th is the next
D-Day where we're going to get another
government shutdown.
>> Yeah, I mean, I think you hit the nail
on the head here. The federal budget
process is fundamentally broken. It's
been broken for probably a decade now.
And as it kind of caks and cracks and
and Washington becomes more partisan and
things become harder to do, I think the
brokenness of the federal budget system
becomes more obvious and starts having
real world consequences. Congress hasn't
completed the appropriation cycle on on
on time in years. Uh the idea of even
doing a budget for reasons other than
doing a reconciliation bill is basically
laughable. And I think what you're going
to see is increased likelihood of
shutdowns. Now, in the past, what we've
seen is that nobody really wins from a
shutdown. Members come out of that
saying, "Gosh, I don't want to do that
again." I'm not sure that's what you're
going to see this time around, given how
long everything functioned just fine
under the shutdown government. I mean, a
huge portion of federal workers were
considered uh essential, meaning they
could do their jobs but not get paid.
And it wasn't until flight delays really
started kicking in and you had this
issue with SNAP benefits that people
started to really feel the real world
pain. But I think that one of the
lessons of this shutdown is that a week
or two or longer of shutting down the
government really isn't that big of a
deal. President Trump can fly around the
globe making peace deals, tearing down
the east wing, and it doesn't affect
people's lives until you get much deeper
into the shutdown.
>> Yeah. But John uh to John's point
earlier when he was talking about the
fact that we may not get this data ever
in terms of data that was not collected
during the uh reference period, Greg Do
over at EY Parthonon said that about 20%
of the economic hit from the government
shutdown probably will be uh permanent
just simply because there is sort of
this lost uh activity, economic
activity. I'm just wondering, does this
change the landscape for investors, for
corporations trying to maneuver in a
world that is affected by a government
shutdown, even if most people don't feel
it?
>> I think that if you're thinking about
the future and thinking about
possibilities of what the future's going
to look like, you've got to have a much
wider range of outcomes on your radar
and prepare for those those outcomes.
You could have an even longer government
shutdown in January. There could be no
government shutdown in January. you
could have the Democrats take back the
House next year and then you get an even
longer shutdown coming in 2027. So, I
think there's a lot of different
possibilities here. You can't rule
anything out. Um, and I think that the
fact is that the policy makers just
aren't going to respond until their
constituents are feeling pain. And right
now, I mean, it's possible that this
government shutdown, everyone walks out
of this and says, "Boy, that was more
painful than we thought." And to your
point, the data is that the the economic
pain is permanent. But I don't get the
sense that's happening right now, but
we'll see how people feel in a few
weeks.
>> John, things are changing down in
Washington. And can we just wrap things
up by leaning on your experience? You
know the capital well. Nancy Pelosi is
stepping aside. She's retiring. Senator
Schumer is under immense pressure. You
worked alongside the former leader Mitch
McConnell, longtime leader of the
Republican party. What's left of
Washington DC that you knew so well?
>> Uh, very little. I mean, I think you
look at uh the committees on Capitol
Hill, they don't do much anymore.
They're not producing legislation.
Lawmakers are no longer kind of growing.
The senior lawmakers that are going to
be running the show uh in the next 5 to
10 years aren't ones that grew up in
this era of bipartisan compromise where
they came to Washington to do
legislation and get bills done. There
are people that came up in an age of
Donald Trump and social media. And I
think that creates a different set of
incentives for lawmakers. It makes
lawmaking harder. Congress has abdicated
a lot of its responsibilities and the
public doesn't take it very seriously.
So I I think on Capitol Hill at least
you're going to get a much weaker
generation of leaders and no disrespect
to the people who are there now. This is
just a broader trend. And I think it
means that Congress takes itself out of
the governing game and puts itself into
a full-time campaign mode that's going
to define more and more of the noise and
policym you're hearing out of
Washington.
>> John Lieieber put well. Thank you sir.
John Lieieber of Eurasia Group on the
latest down in Washington DC. I throw in
the fact that we've just torn at the
fabric of coherent ideologies over the
last several years on both sides of the
aisle.
>> Yeah, there's a real question around
what government intervention should be
in the business cycle in corporations. I
love how Punch Bowl put it. We want to
welcome back members of the House of
Representatives to Capitol Hill.
Remember the big white building with the
giant dome is the capital. That's where
the House floor is. We know it's been a
while cuz there is this feeling that
there just is an actual abdication of
responsibility if not uh you know just a
a virtual one.
>> You talked about the likes of vibes,
right? Let's talk about the vibes in
Washington DC. When you see politicians
that think they're influencers and not
policy makers, we got a problem. And I
hope that's not how things play out here
in New York City.
>> Well, that's uh going to be an
interesting point of discussion, I'm
sure, at tonight's dinner with the Wall
Street executives at the White House.
How much can you imagine that Mani is
going to come up in those conversations
given the fact that there's been a real
tip for tap between President Trump and
incoming mayor uh Zoran Mani and a lot
of the executives in that room if not
most of them all live in New York City.
>> Want to watch later this evening. Coming
up next, Hugh Vanis of Oliver Wyman
saying AI investors need to pick up the
slack. Plus, Danny has some of the
morning movers this morning. AMD
predicting a boost in earnings on AI
demand. Growth ahead is looking good for
that company. According to that company,
that stock is up by more than 5% from
New York City. You're watching Blimbeg
TV.
[Music]
Three days of gains on the S&P 500.
Here's day four. We're higher by a
quarter of 1% on the S&P, up by 0.5 on
the Nasdaq 100. A lift on a small caps,
the Russell up by 0.1. The bond market
reopens with bond yield to lower trading
off the back of the data rack yesterday.
Weaker than expected economic data
almost across the board in the last 24
hours driving yields lower by three
basis points. So the front end of the
curve to 35576. The big debate the front
end of the curve. What does the Fed do
next? A range of views coming up later.
Check this out for the Fed speak today.
Lisa Williams Pollson, Walabostic, Myron
Collins, and a whole lot more to come
for the rest of the week. and that will
offer approximately no clarity on
exactly what they'll do next month
because there is a lot of division and
it's unclear whether they'll have any
new information or frankly any new
consensus heading into December. A real
question here around a battle between
what we are in. Are we on some sort of
reaceleration? Are we on a
technologically imposed regime change
kind of moment where suddenly we have
new productivity or are we heading into
a stagflationary type of environment
where you're starting to see the data
reflect that? Some officials are worried
about the labor market. Others are more
concerned that inflation is closer to
three than it is to two. And in the next
month or so ahead of their meeting of
December 10th, we will get some payrolls
data. But we probably won't get some
inflation data. So to convince those
hawks that they need to cut interest
rates, that jobs data we will see needs
to be a whole lot worse than expected to
convert them to cut interest rates. And
then overlay on top of this this
question on what's behind the labor
market data that has shown a reduction
in the number of jobs actually created
in any given month. Is it immigration?
Is it a supply side issue? Or is this
truly a demand waning? And if it is
demand waning, is that truly signaling
some sort of recession? Or is that
signaling that we're all going to be
replaced by robots? I mean, I'm being
sort of tongue and cheek here, but there
is this element of what are we looking
at? And everyone has a different
opinion.
>> Are you having that recurring nightmare?
I'm having it, too. wake up sweating.
>> Yeah. Robot being like, "Hello, I am
this promotes on television."
>> It's telling people about financial
markets,
>> switch up the boards and get to the bond
market. No,
>> to be honest, sometimes when I wake up
and the alarm goes off at 3, 3:15, I'm
like, you know what? The robot can fill
it.
>> You can have it on your way, son.
Speaking of worries about inflation, the
UK getting a record 69 billion pounds in
bids for inflation linked debt in that
sale. That number, that headline just
crossed in moments ago as we count down
to the opening about three hours away.
Let's get you an update on some single
names some morning movers. Here's Danny
Burgerer with more. Hey Danny. Hey John.
A rebound techwide this morning for the
chip stocks. Helping with that is what
we heard from AMD giving a new outlook,
a renewed outlook and update from Lisa
Sue, the CEO there, saying that revenue
expectations are going to be higher. 35%
gain for the next 5 years. When it comes
to AI data centers, that will look more
like 80%. So trying to assuage some of
the fears that we've had in recent days
about the sustainability of AIdriven
revenue, those shares up 5%. Elsewhere,
a great scoop from Ryan Golds and the
deals team that the payments firm Bill
Holdings is exploring a sale according
to people familiar. We don't know with
who exactly. It could be another large
payments provider or private equity
fund. They've been under pressure from
activist investor Starboard, hence the
exploration of the sale of those shares
up 12%. Finally, we got some earnings
early this morning from On the Running
Shoe Company, and it was a beat and a
raise. Even though this company has the
most expensive running shoes on the
market, they raised prices in July. They
kept them higher. There are fears about
tariffs, people are still buying them.
There's lots of demand. They especially
saw bright spots in Asia and in Europe.
So, those shares up 8.7%. John
>> Danny, thank you. Good news for them
because the shares of Decas have had a
terrible year so far this Yeah, Decker's
trying to get into the running game and
frankly on holding has been winning it.
Nike is battling to try to keep keep up.
It's really competitive. It is highly
difficult. I'm looking right now at
Cloud Surfer Max for $180 flying off the
shelves and people can't get enough of
them. It's not a price game anymore.
It's something something else. And so
this to me is get into the running clubs
and start giving out freebies.
>> You're a runner. I don't like those
thick heels, those thick soles. I don't
like them at all.
>> You know, it depends which ones. Some of
them are very effective, some of them
aren't. It depends how bad your knees
are or how good your knees are. It
depends the distance that you run.
>> I feel like I'm on stilts, you know? I
like to be low to the ground.
>> I like to have the springs and I can
just sort of spring up.
>> Oh, you like those? I don't like those
at all.
>> Like to be low to the ground.
>> I I can imagine that. Stealth in and
out, you know, of people in New York
City. Anyway, on a radar this morning, I
don't run. President Donald Trump
hosting Wall Street Elite for dinner
this evening, including JP Morgan CEO
Jamie Diamond. people familiar with the
matter telling Bloomberg the president
is looking to bring business leaders on
board with his policies. Elsewhere, the
record-breaking government shutdown is
finally nearing its end on day 43. House
Speaker Mike Johnson ordering lawmakers
back to Washington for a possible vote
later on today. And finally, AMD rising
after predicting accelerating sales
growth over the next 3 to 5 years driven
by surging demand for AI products. The
CEO, Alisa Sue, expecting data center
revenue to increase by 80% and seeing
the total chip market reaching $1
trillion by 2030.
>> Lisa Sue saying at this dinner that the
rate and pace of change in AI is
certainly beyond anything that I've
seen. Talking about how margins, profit
margins are going to get to 35% as they
meet both what's going on at Intel as
well as compete more directly uh with
Nvidia. It raises a question about the
vibes market because a week before she
gave this talk, there was a round kind
of disapproval of the earnings that came
out better than expected and the shares
fell. Now she comes out giving the same
kinds of uh projections, the same kind
of vibes and the reaction is so much
different. It points to just how
different and fickle the market can be
on one day to the next.
>> Some push back in the last week, but
some relief this morning off the back of
that particular forecast. Lisa Sue, it's
not going to level off. That's the
outlook for demand. Let's turn to AI
infrastructure investor concerns rising
as big tech issues record debt to
finance the AI buildout. Hugh Van Stein
of Oliver Wyman writing financing the
trillions needed for digital and energy
infrastructure demands long-term capital
as the boundary of what banks can
provide got moved. Investors need to
pick up the slack. Hugh joins us now for
more. Hugh, good morning, sir.
>> Morning, John.
>> Let's just talk about that. The boundary
for what the banks can provide. What
does that mean? Just unpack that line
for us. Um so look so with uh the change
in regulation banks struggle to invest
or lend much more than five years and
with a lot of these data centers they
want to do eightyear money 10 year money
and lock it in and so that provides an
opportunity for both the investment
grade bond markets but the quantity
needed to fund is good let's say JP
Morgan's forecasting 700 billion for
next year for data centers in the US
alone probably doubling by 2030 that's
more than the IG market alone can hold
and the the best the one of the sources
of flexible capital was private credit
and I think what's been really
interesting to me and we tal spoke about
before is the complexion of private
credit has changed I mean finance has
evolved in an enormous amount something
like 2/3 of all the new money in private
credit in the last 3 years have come
from insurers that that they they want a
slightly lower but more dependable
return and that's structurally lowering
the cost of capital of what private
credit can do hence why data centers is
right in their ballpark
>> and they'd obviously want longduration
investment grade debt now we saw some of
that come to market. We saw Alphabet
come to market with an eight part
offering including a 50-year maturity.
That demand got came out and sucked up
all that supply week before it was meta.
Do you think that demand's ready to go?
Can it meet this moment or do we need to
build this market out more?
>> Uh well, I think it's both. I mean, uh I
think you've already seen a flurry of
very large deals, but it's probably in
the hands of probably only four or five
players at the moment. So actually four
players can't take take all of it and so
in even they are actually arranging the
deals and maybe syndicating half of it
away to to elsewhere in the bond market.
But no, I think it's it's ramping really
really fast and certainly I was with one
manager yesterday who said they think
this private investment grade market
will actually be larger than the rest of
their private credit business next year
in terms of growth. So it's it really is
the the key focus for 26. How concerned
are you that fundraising has been at a
record pace for private asset managers
in credit? They have a lot of money they
need to deploy. They're looking for
opportunities and it seems like there's
almost more cash chasing potential
opportunities than there are the
potential opportunities to get financed.
That's usually a recipe for accidents.
How concerned are you about that?
>> Uh Le, I think it's a great question. I
think look, the space is now large and
and varied enough that it depends which
piece. So I think you're right that in
the leverage finance market as you you
speak about daily the M&A market has not
picked up that much nor is IPOs. So
there it's loans are heavily picked over
and actually with the financial
deregulation simplification the banks
are becoming much more relevant. So Lev
Fin acquisition finance is very tightly
bid but actually in terms of this new
infrastructure buildout the demand
exceeds the supply and so actually it's
interesting even with the deals that
John just mentioned you can get if it's
an offbalance sheet structure you can
get about 1% more than the investment
grade index that for an insurer is
pretty appealing if it's a 10-year
duration
>> this is really largely asset based
finance though with the data centers in
particular and I just wonder how much
we're evaluating whether we need data
centers in Tennessee and the southwest
desert
If this actually does get more efficient
and start to build out, I mean, at what
point are we talking about assets that
are going to become obsolete in short
order?
>> Oh, look, this this is again, if I think
about the big debates of people doing
their year ahead and thinking about 26,
this is one of them. I think the way the
way it's been put to me is like for the
next three years, the demand is so
strong actually you're and you're being
underwritten by very very high quality
borrowers. I mean, let's make a
comparison here. If we were sitting here
in 989 and there's a little bit of that
uh a field that you you speak about you
had global crossing you had some of
these large non-investment grade firms
making investments today these
hyperscalers are there are better credit
rating than France I mean for the moment
you know and so you're seeing much
higher quality borrowers so I think
there's a there'll be there'll be some
differentiation I suspect that the
hyperscalers and the really good credits
who who are really good tenants uh will
get a slightly cheaper cost of capital
and then you'll need to be paying up for
that little of will the tail still be
there in 5 or 10 years and of course
these are different you need to replace
the chips every 3 to four years so
there's some real constant refresh capex
so look there's nothing in finance it's
simple it there's never money left on
the table this is going to be you know
something where you need to be smart and
I think it's that challenge between the
people who are smart credit risk takers
and those who are not there are some
waste spots can we explore some major
question marks in the ecosystem so I'm
with you the hyperscalers really strong
balance sheets got all that they're the
ones making these massive investments
let's Talk about Open AI.
>> So they've got huge spend commitments
over the next several years which are a
multiple of the revenue they're
currently generating and that really
feels like it's the foundation for
everything that's happening around us.
Is that the big bet? Lisa's asked this a
few times. Are we betting on one
company?
>> Well, look, let me not I don't probably
don't speak to one particular company,
but let's say our good friend Torson
Slock had a good chart showing how the
scale of Open AI is something like 3 to
four years faster than Nvidia and
Facebook and so others were. If that
were to hold then hopefully that's the
case. If they then slip back to the same
trajectory as the others then of course
the financing needs start to become much
more challenging. But you're look it's a
it's a great question. I think that
there's a lot of thoughtful credit work
being done to try and think through what
are the uh you know the vendor financing
or what's the control place here.
>> Do you think at this point already where
we're starting to test investor
tolerance where they need to demonstrate
exponential revenue growth from here to
justify some of the spend commitments
we've seen? Uh certainly the way it's
the way it's being put to me is that in
the investor conversation we have is
that they need to maintain this
extraordinary uh fast scaling otherwise
things will slip.
>> Right now I'm just wondering going
forward whether you think that energy
constraints are going to become an issue
in the near term. I mean how much some
of the data center buildout is really
going to be contingent on how quickly
the grid can keep up.
>> Oh completely. So this is interest. So
Lisa, this is why I think also in the
conversations we're having, we're now
starting to say like the difference
between is the data center next to
existing grid connections or existing
maybe it's an old coal coal fire power
plant which needs to be re re repurposed
that's getting a cheaper cost of capital
the ones which are off. So no these
energy uh the interconnections and the
energy demand is becoming not only a
political issue but also uh one which is
really at the heart of economics. Look,
I'm not saying every deal is being prop
is correctly priced because there's such
a frenzy here to to to do the buildout,
but I think there's much more focus in
the due diligence now around uh where
where's the energy coming from. And the
other piece is given the demand there's
probably going to be huge inflation in
actually putting these together. So I'm
also hearing people underwriting saying
you know what let's assume not only the
price but a bit like in the pandemic
plus some and obviously there's a debate
about what that plus sum should be.
>> Hugh given the constraints to Lisa's
point could come from energy. Is there
more comfort in the investor world to
support that buildout than maybe there
is elsewhere in the broader story of AI
and the data center effort?
>> I'm not sure I've got a strong view on
that, John. I mean, I think that uh I
mean, I can see what the spreads are
tight enough to suggest the demand is is
definitely there, but I think it's uh
look, these are tough questions going to
26.
>> The worry is over capacity, right? Over
capacity and one thing, but the story
seems to be that we don't have the
capacity and energy. And I would have
thought that people would develop more
comfort in that story at least
allocating capital to it because that's
what we need to develop to maybe some of
the questions that remain elsewhere
about the other things.
>> So but isn't isn't sorry Lisa but isn't
that why some of the biggest deals we've
seen in the last few months are not just
data centers. They're actually LNG pipes
grids. It's it's also the utilities. And
I think that's interesting. Some of our
private credit clients are spending as
much time around utilities and energy as
they are on pure data centers for
exactly your reason. Well, data centers
are more satisfying, John. I mean, right
now, the idea of investing in something
that's going to take 10 years to build
out, not something a lot of people want
to get around.
>> Yeah, data centers are also very
controversial
because of the energy costs that come
with that to the community that they put
those massive things in and they are
huge. They are some ugly things, right?
>> How much do you expect a lot of the big
tech giants to become utilities in 10
years? They're going to be the ones that
have to build this. They're going to be
the ones that regulate this. They're
going to be the ones that finance this
because ultimately, you're right, it is
a political issue. And at a certain
point after they get the exponential
growth, if we all rely on them to that
degree, how much does their profit line
look more like a Verizon than it does
say, you know, the medicine opening eyes
of today?
>> This is how I think about things. I'll
use my hands. Profit growth's up here.
Employment growth is right here. And in
between is a lot of space for societal
push back and political tension. All of
that right there is where the game's
going to be played over the next 18
months.
>> Yeah. Watch the space. So given the fact
that Congress seems to be on the ball
and very much ready to legislate
compared to the conversation that we
just had with John Liieber, you know,
I'm looking forward to their
propositions for exactly how to uh
narrow the space in a productive way.
>> Hugh, it's good to see you.
>> Thanks for stopping by. Thanks for being
here. Thank you, sir. Hugh Van Stein
there of Oliver Wyman. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahira Arnard.
How you
>> hi John. Speaking of the AI buildout,
Coreweave shares are staging a modest
rebound up about 1% after a 16% drop in
yesterday's session. In its latest
earnings results, it announced it
expects a delay in fulfilling a customer
contract caused by a third-party data
center developer being behind schedule.
That caused it to trim its outlook.
Shares had more than doubled this year
after its initial public offering back
in March. Meanwhile, leaders of major US
airlines pressed for more information on
the safety data that justified the
flight cuts mandated by the government
due to the shutdown. People familiar say
executives asked the FAA if the agency
identified risks that the carriers might
not have been aware of. The FAA shot
down concerns and went ahead with its
plan to cut 10% of flights across 40
major airports.
And JP Morgan is broadening its push
into the digital asset space. The
world's largest bank has started rolling
out a deposit token called JPMCoin to
institutional clients after a monthsl
long trial. The coin allows users to
send and receive money via the Coinbase
affiliated block public blockchain base
allowing payments to process in seconds
and 247 rather than in days and just
during working hours. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in the
next hour. Up next, getting the data
back on track.
>> We hope that with the government uh
reopening, we can get very quickly
October and November employment data.
Right now, we just have to
uh go ahead and interpret this data
because this is all that we have.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Jane Foley
of Rama Bank live from New York City
this morning. Good morning to you all.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Your favorite 24 hours full of Fed speak
coming right up. John Williams of the
New York Fed, Philadelphia Fed President
Anna Pollson, Chris Waller, Fed Governor
Steven, Fed Governor, Boston Fed
President Susan Collins, and more over
the next 48 hours into the weekend.
>> What clarity can we glean from this,
John? What do you think we're going to
learn? How much can you really get a
sense of what they're going to do in
December and beyond? What's your view?
>> Very little.
>> All right. But
>> I will say I think we can stress test
their positions and say to them, if we
don't have inflation and you don't get a
CPI report by the December meeting, does
it make the call to cut interest rates
or hold harder, easier? You tell me.
>> Yeah. What data are they looking at?
What's actually going to be the tell for
them? Especially given the fact that
it's unclear which government data we're
going to be getting. And that I think is
a really key question for a lot of them
out there. under surveillance this
morning getting the data back on track.
>> The October data is going to be very
noisy and it's going to be affected by
the government shutdown. This coming
month is going to be pretty tough. We
hope that with the government uh
reopening, we can get very quickly
October and November employment data.
Right now, we just have to
uh go ahead and interpret this data
because this is all that we have.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Investors are waiting signs. Government
data will resume with alternative data
sending mixed signals on the economy.
Jane Foley of Rabber Bank writing, "The
dollar will be more sensitive to poor
data releases in the coming weeks than
to good. Either way, it's time to
reassess the outlook for the greenback."
Jane joins us now for more. Jane,
welcome to the program. What data are
you focused on?
>> You know what, any data, I think, at
this point, but particularly of course
the Labor data and the CPI data if and
when we get it. But you know, we all
know that that's going to be pretty
confusing perhaps in in October will be
affected by those shutdowns. But I think
we learned something particularly
yesterday about positioning for the US
dollar and that is probably going to
tell us how the dollar is going to react
because when that ADP data came out
yesterday, the dollar sold off perhaps
more aggressively than I thought it
would on that data. Uh and and that I
think tells us that the market isn't
quite so short of the dollar anymore.
And we got to remember that whilst the
dollar remains the worst performing G10
currency in the year to date, actually
it's done pretty well in the in the
second half of the year to date. And and
yesterday after that data, you know, it
was a Norwegian Corona that was the best
performer. But, you know, last week it
was the dollar that was the best
performing G10 currency in the year to
in the second half of the year to date.
And and now I think we're in this more
balanced position for the dollar. And
that I think is going to be crucial
going into these data numbers.
>> In your words, it's time to reassess the
outlook for the greenback chain. Against
what is it? Against the single currency,
the euro or the story of the moment, the
Japanese yen.
>> You know, I think all of these, but I
think the yen has got it perhaps bigger
fundamentals. We saw what seemed to be a
little bit more verbal intervention by
the new finance minister in the Japanese
parliament this morning. A little bit
more push back. She appears to be coming
more uncomfortable with the yen. And
actually we had some indications out
earlier in the week uh from the Bank of
Japan with respect to their previous uh
uh policy meeting. You know we can't um
write off the risk of a of a December
interest rate hike from from the Bank of
Japan. That is still going to be you
know very much so a live meeting. So you
know there is the possibility that we do
get maybe an interest rate hike that we
may even get intervention. I think the
market is going to be wary about 155 on
on dollar yen. So there is very much a a
yen story going on there as very much
there is a a cable story a sterling
story going on but you know the common
denominator here is is the dollar and it
doesn't seem to have an awful lot of
strong direction right now.
>> There is a strong direction possibly uh
later this month when we get Nvidia
earnings. How much does the AI trade
really favor the strength of the dollar
and kind of buoy it from losing too much
value versus its peers?
I think this is is really important
because for instance, you know, if we
look uh longer term, if we look at the
the amount of portfolio flows that came
into the US uh assets into the stock
market, but also bonds also the dollar,
you know, say from the global financial
crisis up until, you know, last year.
What was driving this and and what was
driving it was the outperformance of the
US on growth and productivity and of
course crucial to that outperformance on
productivity has been the US tech
companies. the fact that, you know, the
most of the world's 100 tech biggest 100
tech companies are are US-based. You
know, that that they're from the US.
They are American companies. They're
still there. And yet, we had the dollar
selling off at the start of the year.
But I think that was more like a really
big uh heavy lump of of profit taking
after years of the buy America trade.
And if we look at US fundamentals now,
yeah, okay, maybe we're not going to be,
you know, so uh uh focused on the on the
US trade. Maybe there is room for
diversification but those fundamentals
are still very much there and they are
linked to productivity gains. They are
linked therefore to to tech and I think
they are going to you know protect uh uh
the outlook for the US economy and
therefore for the outlook for US assets
and the outlook for the US dollar going
forward. I don't think we have moved
into this era where the dollar is going
to be on on on the back foot like you
know many commentators were were fearing
at the start of the year.
>> Part of it is what they're up against.
And I just want to leave uh conclude by
asking you about the pound because we've
heard a lot of the discussion around
what the budget has looked like. Is
there anything that can get the pound
stronger at this point without maybe
regime change at the top?
>> Well, you know, even if we were to get
regime change, there's an awful lot of
uncertainty that would have to come
first. It's not that easy to to ask the
the lab the leader of the Labor Party
and and actually, you know, what would
that do for investors? It would just add
to the confusion. and it would add to
the uncertainty and probably a direct be
a drag on investment growth and and the
possibility of of an uptick in in
productivity. So even that at this point
I think could be a a weight on the
pound. So uh you know cable has been you
know quite uh resilient um in the last
uh uh you know couple of weeks or or so
but I do think we are going to see a
little bit more downside on cable. I
think that's got to come and I don't
really think the budget's going to bring
an awful lot of good news. We just know
we're going to have an awful lot of tax
hikes and and downgrades to to growth
and productivity forecast.
>> I'm not sure the bar could get any lower
for that budget, Jane. It's good to see
you as always. Jane Foley of Rubber
Bank. Feels like we've had months and
months of leaks about this tax hike,
that tax hike. I'd be surprised if they
announced a tax hike we haven't already
heard of.
>> Yeah. And if they have, congratulations.
Giggoponath had a great column in the
Financial Times talking about how fiscal
instability and uncertainty is causing a
lot of the problems.
>> Game of Thrones over at Westminster
today. We'll avoid some of that. Coming
up on the program, we'll catch up with
Rick Reer of Black Rockck, David Tinsley
of the Bank of America Institute, and
Amy Gower of Morgan Stanley. The second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up next.
Both businesses and consumers are wary
about the economy. Without data, it's
kind of hard to get a gut check.
>> The October data is going to be very
noisy and it's going to be affected by
the government shutdown. Further
inflationary pressures may be coming
down the pipeline.
>> It's a K-shaped uh market economy. It's
a K-shaped uh socioeconomic recovery
postco. Everything is diverging.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures adding some weight to the rally.
Three days of gains on the S&P 500.
Hello day four high by 0.2% on the S&P
on the NASDAQ up by 0.3. In the bond
market, a rally this morning. The
Treasury market reopens after some weak
data yesterday. Yields are lower by
three basis points at the front end of
the curve on twos 35576.
Today we can debate the front end of the
curve. A big debate at the Federal
Reserve and a ton of Fed speak through
the next 24 hours. a real lack of
clarity around what the Fed's response
mechanism really is at a time where
people can't understand whether we're
heading into a reaceleration or whether
we're heading into a downturn, whether
we're heading into a a surge in
productivity or whether we're heading
into something that feels stagflationary
and unsustainable with the division
between the wealthy and the poor. And
right now, the lack of understanding is
clouding the fact that we're not even
getting data, right? So, we can't even
get any concrete bonafide data from the
government to really parse over. So
people are just using the data points
that are conflicting within different
sectors of companies that are trying to
get an upper hand. It is a stew and uh
Fed officials are just admiring it.
>> We've been leaning on third tier and
fourth tier economic data. Challenger
job cuts have been a focus over the last
week or so. We never talk about
challenger job cuts and you're unlikely
to get the CPI data in the next month as
well. According to this line from Kevin
Hassid, the NEC director saying, "I've
been told that some of the surveys were
never actually completed. So we'll never
perhaps even know what happened in that
month.
>> So CPI is probably the casualty uh that
a lot of people are expecting. When you
take a step back, even if we were to get
the data, unclear how much of a signal
we actually could get because right now
you have the challenger job cut
announcements that largely were tied to
Amazon and UPS which were announced and
Amazon linked it to artificial
intelligence and the idea that they are
doing more with less fewer people. But
there is this larger question about the
fact that companies sound pretty good.
They're not talking about recession.
They're not talking about downturn, but
they're not hiring. So, how do you solve
that puzzle? Is this a puzzle that is
solvable with more layoffs, or is this a
puzzle that is solved with more
productivity, greater economic activity,
and then eventually more hiring?
>> We'll get into that puzzle in just a
moment. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Rick Reer of Black Rockck. With
equities looking to stage a comeback,
David Tinsley of the Bank of America
Institute as consumer spending continues
to climb and Amy Gower of Morgan Stanley
as the AI buildout pushes copper even
higher. We begin this hour with stocks
hovering near record highs. Rick Reer is
Black Rockck CIO of Global Fixed Income
and is widely considered to be one of
five contenders to replace Fed share Jay
Powell. He writes the following. Moving
interest rates lower is very much in
line with what we do know today, which
is that the labor market is clearly
slowing to the point of potential still
speed. Rick joins us now for more. Rick,
good morning.
>> Thanks. Thanks for having me.
>> Good to see you, my friend. It's been
too long. Thank you.
>> Welcome to the studio. Have we got a
labor market problem?
>> I do. I don't. And by the way, I don't
think it's a cyclical phenomenon. I
think there is the way Lisa was I think
we have a productivity revolution that
is pretty extraordinary and people point
to AI as an exclusive driver of that. If
you look across what companies are doing
including second quarter earnings, third
quarter earnings, if you dynamic around
around how you think about logistics,
freight management, predictive
maintenance, uh customer procurement,
companies are doing more with less. And
I think that is a secular dynamic that's
going to be with us for a couple of
years now. I think I mean we can talk
about there's a bit of elevated
inflation because of tariffs, but I
think we're going to be dealing with
something. By the way, you also put
robotics, automation, you know, this to
me is a structural dynamic. I think full
employment will be the challenge for the
next couple years.
>> So we mentioned the spread between
earnings growth, fantastic, employment
growth, terrible. How are we closing
that gap if ever?
>> So I think, by the way, I actually think
that's not a coincidence. Those aren't
coincident factors. What's happening is
companies literally the topline revenue
is pretty good generally, but what's
happening is they're cutting cost of
goods sold. They're cutting their SGNA
costs. They're reducing their cost
infrastructure. By the way, AI is a
technology. There's historically been
this dynamic of when when you have new
technology, it moves people into other
higher value jobs. This technology, by
the way, I put robotics and automation
on top of it. Autonomous driving, etc.,
is literally designed to replace human
input. You have a dynamic that is pretty
extraordinary that I think you know if
you know as a central bank or whatever
is you think about being anticipatory of
where the world is going that is where
the world is going and I think that is a
challenge economyy's doing fine
divergent um and quite frankly only
operating on a couple of cylinders huge
capex which we talk about from cloud
from infrastructure from power and
you've got higher income wealthy savers
that are doing great and and supporting
consumption in the economy and then you
have the part of the economy that's
interest rate sensitive that's really
struggling and that's part of why I
think the interest rate tool needs to
address lowincome small business housing
and that that's where I think you square
the circle
>> so we've got to talk about this from two
perspectives one as a policy maker the
other as an investor and one of course
informs the other let's just sit on
policy for a moment you're talking about
maybe the need to cut interest rates but
also the fact that some of the pullback
we've seen in hiring is not cyclical
>> how can we address one with lower
interest rates just explore that for us
a Yeah. So, first of all, if you came
down from Mars and said, "Okay, so I've
got 5-year inflation break evens that
trade in the market. You can buy as many
as you want at 2.35%." And you said,
"Okay, now set the price." And you said,
"Okay, 2.35% inflation." And I clearly
have a slowing labor market, you would
say, gosh, I don't know if I set the
rate at three. And then I thought about,
okay, so now what's the equilibrium on
the mortgage rate to create velocity in
housing? And they're directly related to
what you said. Housing today is
threequarters of the wealth by people in
the country is in housing. We have a
housing market that you know you look at
the earnings from Dr. Horton you look at
Lenor by the way I just saw an ISI home
builder survey that showed the softness.
If you actually get the mortgage rate
down a bit then what happens is all of a
sudden you get housing velocity. Why is
housing velocity important? Because you
get labor mobility. Today you can't
move. You lose your job. You got to go
somewhere else. You can't move.
Secondly, and I've said it before, for
every home built in this country, we
hire 3.1 people. It's pretty hard to AI
building a house. So if you can get some
real estate velocity and by the way it's
the way young people who are struggling
today young people who aren't savers who
are borrowers that's the way they build
wealth that's the way you put people to
work and so I think it is all a related
concept. Point being is and and and by
the way why I mean if you if if uh you
know we had to raise interest rates to
where they were but if you said to me
today what's equilibrium I don't think
it's where we sit today in the funds
rate. So, how willing are you to allow
or how willing would you be to allow
inflation to run above that 2% target in
order to run the economy hot to allow
for more job creation?
>> Listen, it's a great question and I
think every time you you think about
these things and I think about the same
thing we take risk. You sort of think
about what are the quadrants of risk.
What are you willing to underwrite? So
today when I think about those quadrants
if you were willing to take some labor
and some uh some overall inflation then
you think about okay what are the sticky
drivers of inflation today healthare
education insurance it's pretty hard to
use the interest rate tool to get
insurance costs down it's pretty hard to
get a healthcare so the tool is not that
robust and health shelter is a sticky
part of inflation that if I actually get
the rate down I'll actually mitigate
some of that elevating I'll mitigate the
rental inflation. So, you know, I'll
throw one other thing. Five-year
inflation expectations are 2.35%.
If you were at two and three quarters,
and by the way, core PCE, the six-month
moving average core PCE is 2.5. Let's
say we're probably closer to three. If
you take the whole full construct of
inflation, three is not an infectious,
you know, you clearly don't see it in
terms of where people anticipate
inflation. If you're running four or
five, then I'd say gosh. or if the three
was trending higher on things that the
interest rate tool impacted then I think
you'd have to address that
>> just to sort of build on that this idea
that three is okay but above that maybe
not so much there's a feeler that there
is an asymmetry in the time frame of AI
>> that right now the buildout is going to
be inflationary because of the
inflationary inputs of commodity costs
of just how much lending and money this
is generating on a broad scale the
productivity gains that will cause
disinflation
will take a lot longer to come into
play.
>> So how if you were the head of the Fed
would you handle that?
>> So I take up so think about historically
the way the interest rate tool worked is
it was a modulator of capex. So you
think about go back 60s and 70s the big
spenders in manufacturing. Today my
guess is OpenAI Nvidia uh Google etc.
It's not the interest rate tool that is
affecting capex. they are going to put
that capex in because there is a long
run benefit for doing it. Meaning the
interest rate tool doesn't really do a
lot. So I think at the end of the day
does that create a little bit of
inflation in the areas you described? I
think so. But I think you have to say
you know where are we going? And I
always say being an investor for a long
time you know the concept of data
dependence if you were constantly in the
rearview mirror trying to figure out how
would you invest is probably the wrong
way to do it. We are going through
something that's very different. We now
are in a capex cycle. And then if you
break down the economy and say, okay,
what is driving GDP today, that's what's
driving this capex and some consumption
from higher income people.
>> The key piece of the inflation story is
shelter. You touched on it and you said
something interesting. Interest rates
down, shelter costs down. Just explain
that for us.
>> Yeah. So I mean we have an inventory
problem in the country and by by the way
look at every piece of data, it shows
the same thing. And so, by the way, when
the mortgage rate has come down a bit
post this recent Fed drop in interest
rates, all of a sudden you're seeing
existing home sales pick up. You know,
we saw we just saw the prepayment report
for mortgages and all of a sudden you're
seeing some acceleration, meaning you
don't have to get the interest rate tool
down that much. If you got the mortgage
rate into the fives, I'd say mid to high
fives. You would see some velocity of
housing. If you saw velocity of housing
today, I saw Dr. Horton's numbers. They
talked about they're doing 1% first year
mortgage and then I think it's 4.9
because they've got to subsidize the
mortgage. Well, what if Dear Horton
didn't have to do that and what if the
actual organically the rate was lower?
They'd build more houses. You create
more inventory. You create more
inventory. You take the pressure off of
rental rates and you start to bring
inflation down. Plus the labor mobility
that that is not an insignificant part
of that.
>> Do you think the Fed needs to think
outside of the box beyond just interest
rates? Is there something else we can do
here? Yeah, I mean I listen I think
there is I think the Fed has a series of
tools. The interest rate tool by the way
today nobody really borrows off the
overnight funding rate. The interest
rate tool it used to be you think about
how banks borrowed short they lent long.
You we had a very different dynamic.
Today the way we trunch the debt in the
economy think about how we finance resi
commercial asset backs credit cards auto
loans. It's trunched. The front end of
the yield curve doesn't really do a lot.
How you think about you know where is
the 10ear point? How do you think about
your balance sheet? How do you think
about all the other tools that are at
your disposal? I think are really
important. Plus, you got to think about
what is the effect of the currency, etc.
relative to that. So anyway, I think the
construct is much more complex and much
more quite frankly, you have a lot of
tools that create much more
effectiveness than we're just going to
move the overnight funds rate every six
weeks.
>> Like the balance sheet, how much would
you be open to see the Fed use the
balance sheet a little bit more?
>> So, I think the construct of the balance
sheet is important. So I think people
don't realize there's a notional dynamic
and there's a DVO1 there's a duration
dynamic further out the yield curve. I
am sympathetic to should we keep the
balance sheet around the same level but
you could be really effective. So today
the US Treasury 89% of what the US
Treasury finances is at the 0 to2ear
point 89. Think about if you're a
company would you ever finance in the
one year like it's it's crazy but that's
where we are today and it is what it is.
So there's not that much float actually
longer on the curve. There's a reason
why people put on steep ners and they
get squeezed out of steep nerves because
there's not that much float. You don't
have to use that much balance sheet. But
if you thought about gosh the construct
of the balance sheet, if we used more of
it further out the curve, we let runoff
happen on the front. If you can keep the
stability of the back end, so if you can
keep the 10-year, you know, we we got to
the tenure was 390. If the tenure was
three and a half to four stable and rate
v rate volatility came down all of a
sudden you'd see mortgage spreads could
come in then you'd get and by the way
deregulation the banking system then you
get mortgage velocity moving so by the
way I don't think we're that far away
and by the way you know this concept of
you know we have to get the rate down
hundreds of basis points I just think
we're not that far away just get it
there keep volatility of the rate market
at a stable level and then you'll see a
system that'll operate pretty well
>> Rick Rita of Black Rockck is going to be
sticking with us to talk about the
market implications of some of this and
the opportunities out there at the
moment. Before we get there, let's give
you an update on stories worldwide. With
your Bloomberg brief, let's cross over
to Yahara Arnard. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. The House of Representatives
is set to vote on reopening the
government after the longest shutdown in
US history. The short-term funding bill
was reached after senators agreed to
compromise on a plan that will fund the
government through the end of January.
The measure would reinstate federal
workers fired during the shutdown and
guarantee back pay for furoughed
employees. Meanwhile, the US military
may build a temporary base near the Gaza
Strip. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the base would be capable of
housing 10,000 international troops for
one year to monitor a fragile truce
between Israel and Hamas. This is the US
has been seeking international support
to send troops to the region to support
the ceasefire.
And the grandson of President John F.
Kennedy is running for Congress. Jack
Sloshberg says he'll make a bid for the
New York seat being vacated by Jerry
Nadler joining a crowded Democratic
primary. Schloberg is a note is an
author known for his political
commentary on social media. He told the
New York Times that the Democratic party
needs more voices to push back on
President Trump's policies. That's
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next, calling Wall Street.
>> The stock market has hit many record
highs during the last 9 months. Many.
And uh it will again, this is just the
beginning. We've never had anything like
this as a boom.
>> Very close to all-time highs this
morning. That conversation continues
with Rick Reer of Black Rockck live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
>> Stocks are positive this morning. Up by
a third of 1% on the S&P, up by 0.5 on
the NASDAQ 100. Under Savannah this
morning, according Wall Street,
>> we must get the government back open
soon and really immediately. We have to
get it. We have the hottest economy
we've ever had and it's affecting the
stock market now a little bit but the
stock market has hit many record highs
during the last 9 months many and uh it
will again this is just the beginning
because when these plants that are being
built right now start opening up we've
never had anything like this is a boom
>> so here's the latest this morning
President Donald Trump is hosting Wall
Street's top leaders for dinner at the
White House sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that JP Morgan's Jamie Diamond
and Goldman's David Solomon are expected
to attend. Blindberg's Jeff Fitzpatrick
is tracking the story. Jack, what's the
objective of tonight's dinner?
>> So, there's no listed objective, but
there's a broader context to consider
here that the president hinted at in
those remarks. Uh, this is a president
who put a huge amount of political
capital into getting his signature tax
bill extended. uh and yet he sees major
uh concerns among the electorate on
affordability, on jobs. Uh there was
some pressure on him to the degree that
he focused on foreign policy taking his
trip to Asia during the government
shutdown. This is a president who
clearly feels some pressure to refocus
on the economy as much as possible and
sell voters on the economy, uh on the
tax cuts they've gotten and on any
success he can. Uh so there's not an
official agenda for what he's trying to
accomplish, but he's certainly brought
forth some high-profile names as you see
him shift his focus a little bit away
from the recent attention on foreign
policy and back uh to the economy uh as
his bread and butter as we get closer to
the midterms next year especially.
>> We'll see if we can get the cameras in
there as well, Jack. A little bit later
this evening, Jack Fitzpatrick there of
Bloomberg down in Washington DC. still
with us, Black Rockck CIO of Global
Fixed Income, Rick Reer, also the head
of the Black Rockck global allocation
team. Rick, you've seen a lot going back
to the late ' 80s. How much fun you
having right now?
>> I mean, I mean, I said before, this is
the best investment environment I've
ever seen. I mean, not not because
stocks are going to go straight up. I
mean, you have divergence that is great
for investing. You have technology
that's changing. And so the ability to
look at tech stocks, healthcare, tech to
look at, you know, where some of the
financials, how you create velocity in
the system and then you know the earlier
conversation we were talking about the
break like now the income levels as long
as this interest rate stays here which
you know what's ironic is commercially
you know I prefer the interest rate to
stay here because it's I mean this is
pretty good. We can create portfolios.
We run the ETF called and you know
creating six six and a quarter. We're
running almost 630 now. You don't have
to take a lot of risk. You don't have to
go out the yield curve. That's pretty
good. So anyway, I think and by the way
the options market, I think the best
opportunities are in the options market.
Rate options, equity options, and you
can manage your convexity. So you can be
long equities and then buy a lot of you
can overwrite your single name stocks.
You can buy downside. It's a it's a fun
environment.
>> Well, let's lean into BIN. You mentioned
it the shares flexible active income
ETF. What kind of things have you been
doing over the past 6 months?
>> You know, we've been, you know, the cool
thing about being active is you can move
around because the regime shifts. And
while, you know, I was describing
earlier like where do you think the
interest rate should be? The truth is
the interest rate isn't going to move
very far. So, you know, we're we're
keeping our interest rate duration, you
know, in and around four years. Um,
we've moved a little bit out of the very
front end because it's pricing a lot now
in terms of where this Fed is going to
go. Then we've done we've shifted some
of our credit into mortgages. Quite
frankly, if you believe rate volatility
is going to be down, mortgages have
become interesting and credit spreads
have gotten pretty tight, particularly
US investor grade has gotten pretty
tight. So, we've rotated out of that.
We've bought a little bit of EM
recently. I would say recently over the
last 6 months, we haven't bought EM in a
long time. You know, if you believe the
dollar is contained, EM becomes pretty
interesting. And the yields, you know,
relative to high yield, the yields in EM
are attractive. So, we've cut a little
bit of high yield. We've got good amount
of investment grade credit and we've
rotated. So today I think our average
rating is A minus which is pretty good.
So it gives us a little bit of room to
do some things like EM.
>> You said something that was interesting
there which is you don't have to go very
far out the risk curve in order to get
income now because yields are high. If
the Fed were to cut rates does that make
you more inclined to take more risk?
Yeah, I mean I have to say you know for
two two decades part of why I'm so
excited about where we are today for two
decades it was like I got to buy a high
yield at three and a half and four and
it doesn't feel natural but now if you
have the risk-free rate particularly in
the front end here gosh I put a little
bit of spread on it now I get what is
ample yield with default rates that are
not that elevated you are seeing some
bubbling defaults in in a couple of
places so you know I think the thing
that we would do is you know I know what
we would do is if rates come down you
know I'm not a believer and this is what
blows you up. I'm not a believer's gosh,
I got to I got to keep that yield. I got
to get my risk up. You just have to
absorb it and say, you know what, I'm
going to run I can't run 625 or so. I'm
going to run five and 3/4 to six. But
you know what'll happen is the cash rate
will come down and people say, gosh, you
know what? Cash is only getting me two
and a half to three. That's and you
know, inflation, even if inflation's
three, like it's still pretty good.
>> Okay. Very few people on Wall Street
though are saying, you know what, I can
just live with less income. I it's okay.
I won't stretch too far. I'll be
disciplined and maybe I'll just take
less cash and I'll commit to the
economy. At what point can you imagine
that things start to get a bit excessive
especially given the fact that there is
a lot of cash right now looking for a
home.
>> So by the way you know it's a funny
thing as you said that you know we we
live in a competitive environment. We
can't just sit back. I mean it is a
tough business and we have competitors
and and people that are out there say
gosh I can get you more yield. Listen, I
think one of the things you have to do
is you got to keep your volatility as
long as you always think about what's
your yield per unit of volatility today.
Equities I think equities are are still
going up 15 to 20% from where they are
over the next year. So, I'm just trying
to keep our volatility in a reasonable
place. What is excessive? You know,
there's some things that are bubbling in
the markets that are mostly in privates
that are gosh, I don't I don't get any
cash flow for two or three years. What's
the multiple you put on that? Like that
stuff is hard. There are some really
good business models. You say, "I see
it." And it's almost definitional. You
know, you see some parts of it where
people have stretched and in some of the
credit markets where some of the levels
get aggressive. It's part of why we've
rotated some of the investment. It
doesn't do that much for us anymore at
those spread levels. But I don't, you
know, I don't see like, you know, saw
before the financial crisis, excessive
low, you know, low covenant or or easy
covenants, high LTV financing. I don't I
don't see that yet today at the around
the edges a little bit but not not
really
>> 15 to 20% on stocks
>> another double digit year
>> you know Jonathan I think I mean I I
think we're living through history
because what you asked about before
because productivity and roe is so
spectacular and by the way I don't think
it's 500 stocks I think it's by the way
we heard a stat yesterday if you take
the S&P 1500 it's is this right that I
heard it was 22% off the highs is I
thought that number Russ Kra who work
with Doug that I thought that was
extraordinary. If you take the highest
ROE businesses, you know, let's say it's
30 stocks, 50 stocks, tech, healthcare,
tech, some of the financials, they're
doing really well. They throw off a lot
of earnings. Their roe is high and they
buy back huge amounts of stock. You
know, small cap, don't really know, but
uh but there's enough stocks with enough
market cap that I think will get you
that sort of return.
>> Stay with market weight on the S&P 500,
raise the concentration.
>> I mean, we're long. I mean, we're, you
know, we're, you know, we've reduced a
little bit of beta. When, when, when,
when, when, when, when, when, when,
when, when equity volatility picks up, I
have to bring my beta down a little bit,
but I'm still running long. And, you
know, days like yesterday, you know,
and, uh, you know, single name, you
know, we get these earnings reports and
single name always high because, you
know, if company doesn't own hit these
excessive numbers, they they hit the
stock.
>> Yeah.
>> So, you can still do some things to
protect some downside. And by the way,
interest rates, if you believe the Fed
is moving, albeit deliberately, interest
rates actually act as a reasonable hedge
again. So there's some correlation to
rate that's allowed us to run a moderate
long.
>> Rick, it's good to see you.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> We appreciate it, sir. And best of luck
with the process. I've known you a long
time. Black Rockck wins either way.
>> Oh, thank you, sir.
>> The country wins either way. Thank you,
sir. Black Rockck's Rick Reer. Coming up
on the program, David Tinsley of the
Bank of America Institute with a
consumer spending surge. Plus, Danny has
your morning movers. AMD shares soaring
on the back of promising comments from
the CEO, Lisa Sue. That stock is higher
by almost 6%.
[Music]
Rick Reader of Black Rockck with the
program just moments ago talking up the
potential for another doubledigit year
on the S&P 500 and US equities over the
next 12 months. Equity futures this
morning by 0.4% on the S&P on the NASDAQ
up by 0.6 in the bond market. The bond
market reopens. Bond yields are lower
anticipated off the back of some weaker
data yesterday. We're down by four basis
points at the front end of the curve.
355 on 10s just north of 4%. Rick also
talking up the prospect of maybe the Fed
using balance sheet to address some of
the issues at the longer end of the
curve.
>> Talking about a sweet spot between 350
and four for 10-year yields that if you
could kind of create that kind of level
and low volatility, you could get the
housing market back uh in force. A real
question here, what is monetary policy's
role? If you do believe that we are
living through history with respect to a
technological shift that could
potentially be inflationary upfront but
disinflationary long term and leave a
lot of people out of work, it is a
quagmire and frankly that's what a lot
of people are wrestling with.
>> We've talked about this a million times.
The spread between earnings growth and
employment growth and the tension it's
generating in between. It's a problem
not for the future. It's a problem right
now.
>> And so if the Fed tries to cap rates to
keep the economy hot to allow people to
get more work, what does that mean for
the dollar? What does that mean for the
credibility of Fed policy with respect
to inflation? These are going to be the
2026 issues that are going to really
create the contours for a lot of market
action.
>> Conclusion, another double digit year on
the S&P 500 if and probably lower in
that direction. Equity futures this
morning up by 0.4% with some morning
movers this morning. Let's cross over to
Danny for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. The big mover of the morning
is AMD with Lisa Sue the CEO giving an
update on where she sees the revenue
trajectory and it's 35% growth over the
next 3 to 5 years for the entirety of
the business. For data centers it's an
80% growth. That confidence helping to
lift shares 5.6% this morning. Uh
elsewhere we also have a little bit of
earnings this coming from the stable
coin issuer circle. It was better than
expected and the amount of their stable
coin in circulation doubled. The issue
is for this company that has had a huge
runup. Prices doubling since their IPO
in the summer is that the rate of return
was lower. And again, given that big
ramp up, we're seeing the reaction in
shares. Those shares falling by about
5.6%. Finally, some sellside action for
you. Cava and Sweet Green getting put on
city's 90day watch list. Their earnings
in recent weeks flag some real weakness,
especially with the younger consumer.
But city pointing out that they get a
good chunk of their sales from the DC
area. Uh the DMV area, DC Maryland,
Virginia sees about 16% of sales for
Cabba, 11% of Sweet Green. So they say
the government government reopening
could give a boost to both those
companies. John,
>> a reopening trade. Danny, thank you.
Appreciate it. More from Danny in about
an hour from now. On our radar this
morning, aids the President Donald Trump
considering cuts to New York City's
federal funding after Zaram Mani's
victory in the Mel race. It's not yet
clear what programs could be impacted.
Mali saying he's ready to work with the
White House. As President Trump hosting
financial executives for dinner at the
White House tonight, attendees including
JP Morgan's CEO Jamie Diamond, NASDAQ's
Adena Freriedman, and David Solomon of
Goldman Sachs. The president is looking
to shore up support for his economic
policies. And finally, aviation leaders
saying flight schedules won't
immediately bounce back after the
government reopens, adding residual
effects will be felt for days. The
transportation secretary Shawn Duffy
offering no timeline for when flight
restrictions might end.
>> You know, Shawn Duffy has been the
poster child of this entire shutdown
over the past couple of weeks. So, he's
trying to uh, you know, articulate some
of the concern and frankly some of the
frustration that people feel. There was
something like 10% of flights on
Saturday that were cancelled and it
really is isolated to a lot of the
biggest airports. So, you start to
wonder at what point are we looking at a
disruption that can go into
Thanksgiving? right now. Even if that we
were going to get a reopening today, it
will take time. Think about the
logistics. Think about pilots that have
to get from one place to another. This
is a logistical nightmare. Nonetheless,
at some point, you can imagine things
might get back to some speed.
>> I'll be watching a conversation you're
having a little bit later, Ed Bastian of
Delta catching up with Brammo around
noon. About noon, top 10.
>> It'll be aired around noon.
>> Looking forward to that. What's going to
be the focus of that conversation? Well,
I want to understand how big the
parameters are for their fourth quarter
and what the track rate really is. How
much people are delaying some of the
reservations for Thanksgiving for the
holiday period because of these
disruptions and whether this is truly an
economic uh disruption that will lead
them with a lower projection for the
fourth quarter. But going forward, it
also really is the perfect example of
the bifurcation in the economy that we
have seen. And what we have seen is that
the wealthier, well-healed travelers are
doing just fine and are supporting the
growth and the profitability of the
likes of Delta. Is it a sustainable
model or does something have to give?
>> I've called it the Delta Airlines
economy. It truly is. The man of the
moment coming up a little bit later at
noon Eastern time catching up with Lisa.
Look out for this. Ed Bastian, the Delta
CEO. Let's turn to the consumer. Bank of
America Institute's latest consumer
checkpoint report showing a fifth
consecutive month of spending increases
but noting consumers are spending more
on retail but getting less while
possibly trading down in services. David
Tinsley of the Bank of America Institute
joins us now for more. David, welcome
back to the program. Always good to
catch up. So, we've seen this tension
and stress with the lower income
consumer for a while. Is it migrating up
to other income groups?
>> Actually, there's not too many signs of
that to be honest. So we've got the kind
of K shape if you like in our data.
Consumer spending top third of the
population by income growing at 2.7%
yearon year in October. Bottom third
down at 0.7% year on year. So we've got
that but the middle is in the middle. So
if anything slightly closer to the top.
So that would be a concern because
obviously you can kind of run the
economy uh with a weakness uh at the low
end just because the kind of
contribution to the overall consumption
picture isn't great. Not talking
obviously about all the socioeconomic uh
implications of that. But if the middle
went that would be more concerning.
>> David you track this I know. What
percentage of this country does live
paycheck to paycheck across income
groups? What does that look like at the
moment? Well, you know, we've just
published on that this week and we found
around a quarter give or take of people
live paycheck to paycheck. So,
literally, you know, in our definition,
they have a very small margin of money
left over at the end of the month after
just spending on necessities.
Now the good news is that that has t
that hasn't risen a little bit between
25 and 24 but the increase is is is
slowed down relative to the previous
years. So it's not getting worse at an
accelerating pace but at the lower end
household income end uh it's higher.
It's about 27 28% from memory. David,
one of the big mysteries going into the
next month is really what holiday
spending is going to look like and how
much the upper part of the income sphere
can continue to support more broad
economic activity that most retailers
depend on for the entire year. I'm just
wondering what the early signs are from
your studies. Well, the early signs are
quite encouraging in the sense that our
holiday spend tracker that you know just
focuses in on categories that are
particularly kind of seasonal if you
like that's got a run rate of 5.7%
yearonear. I mean the caution the note
of caution in that is that uh across
this year we see very little growth if
at all in retail transactions but we see
an uptick in the money spent. So, in
other words, price increases, most
obviously from tariffs, are, as John
said in the intro, leading to people
paying more but getting less.
>> I'm looking right now at this equation.
So, we're looking at spending growth at
5.7% year-over-year. Wage growth,
however, uh for higher income is 3.7%
year-over-year, 1% for lower income, the
widest gap tied with the lowest gap
going back to uh 2016. Does this seem
unsustainable in terms of how much the
consumer is willing to absorb the higher
prices or are you seeing a willingness
to spend it and maybe just expand the c
the credit balance uh that a lot of
these households have given the fact
that they're coming from actually pretty
well adjusted levels.
>> Yeah. Well, I guess there'll be some
convergence. These KS don't go on
forever. There will be some convergence.
So, the big question is is it, you know,
in the middle or is it to the towards
the towards the lower end? I guess if
you're, you know, listening to Rick
earlier and the talking about the
optimism around productivity, you know,
if you're relatively bullish on things
like productivity, then there's no
reason to assume in a sense the economy
should go uh where the labor market has
gone if you like and sort of towards the
lower end. Uh credit pretty solid
really. You know, there's people have
money in the bank relative to pre-
pandemic still. there's a slight rise in
people only making the minimum payment
on their credit card, but again that's
not accelerating that rise. If anything,
it's uh it's decelerating. So by and
large, you know, there sort of dry
powder for holiday spending and in
aggregate uh the K is concerning, but in
aggregate the pitch is quite quite quite
solid. David, how much are credit card
owners still the representative uh sort
of sample that they used to be based on
the fact that an increasing proportion
of people are using buy now pay later
are using alternative sources of
financing and are kind of out of that
credit card world.
>> You know that is a great question. So
certainly in our when we've looked at
buy now pay later and we can look at
people paying those debts off. I think
last time we looked the share of our
households doing that was about 10%.
certainly rising but by no means
everybody and most people are quite
light users of that making only like n
to one to five transactions a month. So
I think it is something to watch I think
and one of the reasons we exist at the
institute is to not just concentrate on
credit card debt. We look at a wires all
the other ways P2P all the other ways
you could uh you could pay for spending
but it's a fair point but I think what
right now these the card data still
gives you a pretty decent steer David
always good to catch up thank you sir
David Tiny there of the Bank of America
Institute my take away from that is the
K is concerning the aggregate is okay
the aggregate is the Fed's position
right that's where consensus kind of is
if there is one right now which is that
on aggregate things are okay. The risks
around it are problematic, but things
are just about okay. The K is
concerning. Sure, the K is the problem
for Washington, for the White House, and
for Congress, and that's what they've
got to wrestle with into the midterms
next year.
>> And the K will become a problem for
markets because, as David Tinsley was
just saying, the K will break at some
point. And it's not just something that
can go on forever. And the question is
which side is going to break to. The
Fed's grappling with that right now.
Washington DC is grappling with the
fallout of a lot of social issues that
are hinging on this.
>> Given the sequence and arc of earnings
season, the attention is going to turn
to the consumer again next week. Next
week we'll hear from Walmart. We'll hear
from Target. Big spotlight on what's
happening with consumption in this
country in the absence of course of
retail sales at the moment. Equity
futures on the S&P positive by a third
of 1% with an update on stories
worldwide. Let's cross over to Yhira for
your morning brief. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Federal Reserve Governor
Michael Bar is calling for guard rails
as the financial sector looks to adopt
AI. Speaking in Singapore earlier, he
warned that loosening those standards
opens us up to too much risk from market
manipulation to collusion. Plus, he
worries AI could be trained on skewed
data that could introduce new biases
into the financial system. Meanwhile,
banks in China are asking clients to
take out loans and then immediately
repay them with the bank covering the
interests. The practice is spreading as
banks come under pressure to hit
government set targets that can't be met
by real demand. Regulators have vowed to
prevent funds from circulating within
the banking system instead of flowing to
the real economy.
And shares of on holdings are jumping
8.6% 6% after the Swiss sneaker maker
boosted its sales and earnings forecasts
for the year. The company also posting a
better thanex expected third quarter in
which consumers in Europe and Asia
bought on highric footwear despite trade
tariffs weighing on the sneaker
industry. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. I just want to pick up
on that story again. That right there is
the problem with central planning banks
in China asking clients to take out
loans and then immediately repay them
with the bank covering the interest. The
practice spreading as banks come under
pressure to hit government set targets
that can't be met by real demand. What a
story from the team this morning.
>> This really goes to the heart of a
question. How much can China transform
its economy versus pay lip service to it
and create sort of metrics that seem
like that's the case but still really
relying on the consumption side of not
on the consumption side on the
production side of things and the
overcapacity that they have.
>> Just to take a step back, I think you're
just spot on. This White House and I'd
say this Treasury Secretary wanted this
country and this economy to rebalance
away from exports. What have we seen
over the last year even with the
tariffs? Maybe a record trade surplus
for the year for China. Exports are
going everywhere else. What did we want
to see? We wanted to see China boost
consumption. What are we seeing based on
that example? Can't even make the loans.
No one wants them. That's a problem.
>> You can't change the structure of an
economy by mandating it from the top.
This has to go to a lot of incentives.
And China has been reluctant to give
some of the checks to average citizens
in the same kind of way that the United
States and Europe did during the
pandemic. It was maligned in terms of
the inflationary boost, but it did
create activity and it did create
consumption and that is part of the
problem right now for China.
>> That's the latest on China. Up next on
the program powering the AI buildout.
>> Where is the real bottleneck in this
whole, you know, AI process? Um, it's
really at the gas turbines and the grid.
The grid is copper. Um, and you know,
gas turbines are steel.
>> Jeff Curry of Carlo, fantastic
yesterday. Full conversation up on
YouTube and of course on Bloomberg.com.
We'll continue that conversation. Up
next, we'll catch up with Amy Gower of
Morgan Stanley from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Looking for a fourth day of gains on the
S&P 500. The S&P this morning up by a
third. Outperformers for big tech and
the NASDAQ up by 0.5. The tone of things
out the technology world is pretty good
this morning. AMD talking up growth in
the future. Honai doing the same thing.
We're up across the board here. Small
caps higher by 0.4%. and a Savannah this
morning powering the AI buildout.
Where is the real bottleneck in this
whole you know AI process? Um it's
really at the gas turbines in the grid.
The grid is copper. Um and you know gas
turbines are steel. So we have a lot of
investment needs to take place at that
point in the supply chain before you can
really begin to grow it. A lot of that
capex spend that we're seeing, you know,
these three $400 billion capex spins, a
lot of that's going to go into the
copper price and the commodity prices,
that broader super cycle. We're
witnessing it in metals. So, here's the
latest this morning. The AI buildout
fueling strong demand for industrial
metals, adding to gains for the year.
Amy Gar of Morgan Stanley writing,
"Esewhere, the battle for power is
heating up. Electricity intensive
aluminum smelting is competing with
rising AI power needs." Amy joins us now
for more. Amy, welcome to the program.
there was a hope that maybe these
constraints wouldn't hit so soon. Are we
already hitting them right now?
>> I think um at the moment we we are
definitely seeing that particularly the
electricity intensive commodities are
running into some supply issues. So um
at the moment in the US for example
there's a 50% tariff to import
aluminium. Um but this is still not
really driving the restart of idle
capacity and I think part of the reason
for that is that the the companies are
just struggling to get the power either
because of power availability or because
of the price that they're being expected
to pay. So the US aluminium association
has said you know ideally smelters want
$30 to $40 per megawatt hour but some of
the AI and tech companies are are paying
$100 per megawatt hour. So, it's just
very very difficult for these kind of
industrial metals to compete with the
the price for electricity that is is
playing out right now. And so, that's
that's driving the aluminium price
higher. We have what looks like very
very strong um margins for smelters at
the moment and and so far that's not
really showing any signs of abating.
>> Amy, you track some of these metals,
other metals too that are needed for
this build out, for this transition,
including the likes of copper. Which
commodities of the ones that you track
have proven to have the lowest supply
elasticity? How much longer will we have
to grapple with maybe supply deficits
into next year and beyond?
>> Yeah, look, I think a lot of the metals
that we cover have quite low supply
elasticity, particularly on a short-term
time frame because if we if we think
about, you know, investing in a mine,
these these investment cycles are just
getting longer and longer. So, it's not
necessarily the time needed to construct
a mine, that arguably hasn't changed
very much. But the the time needed for
the permitting, the environmental
approvals, the licenses, getting the
local community on board, all of that is
just stretching longer and longer. And
so that's what pro uh processes like the
fast 41 program in the US are aiming to
address, but this is not an overnight
fix. So it's very very difficult in the
short term to to bring supply on.
Arguably, recycling is one that can
adjust a little bit more quickly. So
often prices go up, recycled supply
comes to market, but there's challenges
there, too. Particularly, I would say
you want free trade for recycling to
work well. You need the places where
there is excess scrap metal. You need
that to be able to transport to where
there's the processing capacity. And at
the moment with all these trade barriers
and and um high cost of of moving things
around the world, that that's also
struggling. So, it looks like both
copper and aluminium, which are your key
electricity conducting metals, and it's
actually quite difficult for supply to
respond at least on a sort of 12 to 24
month view. Amy, I'm glad that you
talked about the trade imbalances and
some of what's going on geopolitically.
I just wonder how much of a choke point
China is over a lot of these metals
given the fact that not only do they
produce a lot of them domestically, but
they have their tentacles in different
places whether it's in South America or
if it's in Africa that are a lot of the
suppliers of a lot of the raw materials.
>> Yeah. Look, I think the the growth that
we've had in China's metals output over
the last 10 15 years has been um
extraordinary and to the point where
where China is, I guess, increasingly
self-sufficient, particularly if we look
at something like aluminium and copper,
they are still a small net importer of
of refined copper. So, arguably they're
not quite there yet, but we are seeing
um the the focus on securing that access
to that upstream resource. So
particularly in copper, you know, you
can build a smelter, anyone can build a
smelter, but it's really getting access
to that min copper and that's where
China is focusing at the moment. And so
I think that's where um the west as well
needs to be looking and and making sure
that you know projects are getting
approved and we are moving forward to to
develop the resources that we have which
um have so far been being held up by uh
long lead times, long environmental
approval processes, etc. to John's point
about the elasticity and how quickly
things could be brought online and I'm
wondering more domestically or
nearshoring uh from that perspective how
much progress has there been made in
terms of bringing some of the refining
and other uh production capacities to
the west over the past say year has it
been a pretty uh exponential growth
um I would say actually so far we we
haven't seen a huge amount and and part
of the challenge there is if you take
copper for example to process a ton of
copper concentrate into refined metal,
smelters are actually having a negative
margin for the most part. So what what
they get paid to process that copper is
is a negative number and that's partly
because of this overbuild of processing
capacity around the world. So it's not
that there isn't enough processing
capacity, it's just it's all
concentrated in a few places. So
actually for then somebody to make that
investment, it's quite tricky if the
margin is negative to then say we're
going to deploy capital here. So I think
we haven't actually seen all that much
progress yet. And then going back to
aluminium smelters, you know, arguably
there is quite a lot of idled capacity
in Europe and in North America. Um in
Europe we are making some progress with
some restarts in Germany and and Spain.
Um, but we're not there's still a lot
that's that's idled and and the
challenge is just getting that five or
10 year power contract at a reasonable
price um that that companies can then
use to to run you to make that restart
decision for the next um sort of 10 15
years of their business planning.
>> Amy, if capitalis
expressing this as a trade
>> at the moment we uh we like aluminium.
We think the combination of the China
capacity cap um where China is no longer
adding to supply which has been a key
challenge for the market for the last 15
years is China over adding capacity um
combined with some supply outages and
then also probably a lower likelihood of
restarts outside of China um is is
keeping the supply side very constrained
against that we've got a good demand
backdrop you know aluminium is the key
substitute for copper and so where
there's a price incentive sometimes you
you can get switching and we think as
While um the the growth in Indonesia,
which many are looking at as something
that could derail the rally, we think
that's not a problem for next year or
probably even for the year after. That's
something that's going to take a bit
longer to build out.
>> Amy, thoughtful stuff as always. Let's
do it again soon. Amy G there of Morgan
Stanley on aluminium.
>> I've been converted aluminum, you know,
but it's nice to hear aluminium
>> every now and again.
>> I actually think it's pretty poetic.
Aluminium. Actually, no, it's not. I
just absolutely butchered it. I can't do
it. It's aluminum. I mean I if you're
growing up with something it sort of
sticks. You know the point here about
what China is doing is so crucial to
these trades. I was thinking okay so
much more is going to hinge on batteries
right and even if the US is really
pushing back against some of the uh EVs
electric vehicle production you still
can imagine lithium would be a good
spot. Lithium prices have absolutely
cratered. Why? Because of overprouction
in China. So it's such a complicated
story even if the overall theme seems
pretty obvious of we need to build the
infrastructure. China seems to be at the
epicenter of all of it.
>> 100%.
>> Yeah. And that's a problem for this
administration as they try and work out
how to become less dependent on the
China story. Coming up on the program,
we'll catch up with Judy Bill of Kerson
RDN, Jay Goldberg of Seapport Global,
Sarah House of Wells Fargo, Ivy Zelman
of Zeld Associates. We'll be having a
conversation in the next hour on a
50-year mortgage and what it could mean
for this housing market.
>> Will it lower prices? Will it actually
uh juice some sort of uh housing market
activity? Honestly, this has been the
strangest area of the economy and
frankly the most politically charged one
as so many people get locked out of the
home ownership market.
>> If you're just joining us, welcome to
the program. We're positive by a third
of 1% on the S&P and looking for a
fourth consecutive day of gains. The
bond market reopens with lower bond
yields. We're down by almost five basis
points now across the belly of the
curve. From New York City, the third
hour of Bloomberg surveillance up next.
[Music]
We have been experiencing uh one of the
biggest and largest momentum markets
that we have had since the late '90s.
>> I think we are in a little bit of a wait
and see moment. The volatility and the
rotation that we're seeing among single
names is healthy. There's a chance we
get a significant 5 to 10% pullback.
>> Looking into next year, we are more
optimistic.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> So, the gains continue not a million
miles away from all-time highs on the
S&P 500. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning from
our audience worldwide. The third hour
of Bloomberg surveillance starts right
now. And we add some weight to the rally
with futures up by a third of 1% on the
S&P, up by 0.6 on the NASDAQ. In the
bond market, we reopen with lower bond
yields across the curve. Two's down by
four. 10's down by close to five. We're
down to 4.07% going into a week full of
Fed speak coming up later on today.
Governor Waller, Governor Myron, New
York Fed President John Williams as
well. And look out for this at 10:45
a.m. Eastern time. We'll hear from the
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson.
>> Yeah. Trying to understand exactly how
to frame an economy that's in flux. We
caught up with Rick Reer just a bit ago
here on surveillance and he was talking
about the same thing that Mary Daly of
the San Francisco Federal Reserve is
talking about. A transformational change
that's creating a real tension right now
where you could get a productivity boom
without the accompanying jobs. It
creates a real quagmire both for the
monetary policy makers as well as for
the Treasury Department.
>> They've got a problem in the labor
market. A problem that we need to
address. A problem that we need to
address fast. The question I would have
is that the responsibility of monetary
policy, the Federal Reserve, or the
responsibility of Congress, the
government, Washington DC.
>> Yeah. And this ultimately will come down
to probably both to some degree. Even if
people say this isn't a monetary policy
problem to fix, increasingly what you're
hearing from potential policy makers and
existing ones is you need to kind of run
the economy a little hot in order to
keep people employed at a time when
they're becoming less relevant in a
technological shift. And right now the
rates they control are more of the rates
that actually are things that feed into
consumption in the lower end of the
economy rather than the overall uh stock
market. Although a lot of concerns here
too with stocks at pretty high
valuation.
>> The jobs data is super relevant to the
politics without a doubt and for the
broader economy. There is no doubt about
that. How relevant is it to the broader
stock market when the forces that are
driving the stock market right now are
the very forces that are undermining the
labor market to some extent at least
over the last year.
>> If you look at what companies have said
when a company announces layoffs,
efficiencies, their stock rallies
because right now they can do more with
less. And that's what we saw from
Paramount Sky Dance and that's what we
saw from Amazon and that's what we saw
for UPS. And when you take a look at all
of these efficiencies, you start
wondering, is this a feature or a bug of
the stock market rally that hinges on
new technology and greater efficiency?
>> Can this decoupling persist? Or is that
tension going to snap back things one
way or the other? That's the story of
the moment. That's where the tension is.
Equity futures on the S&P up by a third
of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Judy Bill of Kane Addison Runick
as stocks are edging higher. Jay
Goldberg of Seapport Global on AMD's
accelerating sales growth and Ivy Salman
of Salman and Associates as President
Donald Trump's 50-year mortgage plan is
losing steam. We begin this hour with
stocks rising. The S&P 500 pushing for
its fourth straight day of gains. Judy
Bill of Kane Anderson Rdnik writing,
"The setup for the first half of the
year should be positive. I'm encouraged
this earnings season to see estimates
holding steady for year end versus
typical softening and estimates look
solid in 2026." Julie joins us now for
more. Julie, welcome to the program.
Let's talk about that earnings growth
and your projection for the next 12
months or so. Where's that growth coming
from and how broad-based is it?
>> I think you're seeing a broadening
beyond the kind of core AI names. For
sure, they'll be part of the story. We
expect that and that that should
continue, but I'd love to see more of a
broadening in terms of industrial names
that are seeing better productivity. And
you know what we would love to see is
healthcare really start to participate
more. And I think I'm hopeful and
optimistic that it's not broader just in
terms of sectors, but market cap as
well.
>> We'd love to see it, too. Hopeful,
optimistic, right there with you. Are
there reasons to be hopeful and
optimistic?
>> Yeah, I I do think that a lot of what's
happening in small cap is more favorable
financing conditions and that's enabling
a lot more earnings growth. If they
don't have the same level of interest
burden that large cap has had, that
helps them for sure. It also kind of
helps loosen the conditions in terms of
their businesses in the industrial
sector. For example, healthcare to me is
more a function of what's going to
happen with the FDA and the government
and can we clarify a little bit of you
know where the CMS cuts are going to be.
Looking forward for me what's in the
Russell that's the most important is
just seeing that the consumer can still
hang on and hold in there. If we have a
deterioration in the labor market, I
don't think that's good for anyone, but
I think that could particularly be
problematic for the Russell,
>> which really raises the issue, Julie, of
the action that we're seeing today in
markets. And I understand that one day
is just one day, but we're seeing bonds
rally on the heels of some less positive
news coming out yesterday, less positive
data. At the same time that you're
seeing futures rally, in particular, the
Russell 2000. Does this work for you?
Does this seem like a coherent picture
or is something a miss?
>> It's not a great picture, right? You
know, for the most part, I try to be in
the good news is good news camp because
I think that's the more important
factor. It's not great when what's
driving, you know, the what's happening
in the Russell is just a function that
interest rates are lower and so
non-earners, you know, could have a
better valuation. What you want is that
the fundamental growth, the earnings
picture to be improving, not just
interest rates are coming down and so,
you know, biotech businesses look better
valuationwise.
>> Heading into year end though, at this
point, do you just want to ride the
rally? go into the most popular names
because it feels like the Santa Claus
rally is gaining some steam and people
are getting excited sentiment following
sentiment.
>> I think it's more important to make sure
that as you come to year end that you
feel very good about the underlying
quality of your business because there
are enough headwinds and heartaches that
are in front of us. I don't think that
it makes sense to just bandwagon on
things that you don't have a lot of
confidence in. So, you know, there are
parts of the AI trade that are lower
quality and they're really, really
dependent on AI continuing at this
feverish pace. Those are the names that
I would avoid, the kind of tangential
connected names, the ones that are the
core winners. You know, look, if if AI
goes away tomorrow, Google still has a
monopoly on search. They're still fine.
That's what I think is important is that
your business model really matters.
>> Julie, next week we'll talk about the
business model of the retailers. So,
Target, a week today, a week tomorrow,
we'll hear from Walmart. What are you
expecting to hear from these retailers?
>> I think Target for the most the the most
important thing for Target is kind of
the level of execution that they've had
has been pretty poor. And so any
indication on have they got their act
together a little more is helpful.
Walmart, I'm really curious about this
lower income consumer. Part of what I'm
worried about is that we've seen this
immigration outflow that's pretty
meaningful. And so is it a function of
their low-income consumer is stressed
and spending less or are there just
fewer of them walking in the door?
That's a really important component in
terms of understanding what's happening
in the labor market because immigration
has both boosted and hurt us in the most
recent three or four or five years. So
I'm really curious about that and then
what is going to be the setup for
holiday? How are people thinking about
pricing because of tariffs? I have this
sensation that maybe we're going to see
less discounting and how does that
impact pricing and feels about that?
>> So Judy, what we've seen from the
restaurant business and what we've heard
from fast casual is they're struggling
to put up prices. they're getting push
back from the consumer. Is a retailing
world a different world or do they have
to experience the same themes?
>> I think it completely depends on the
merchandise that you have. If you are
differentiated and your consumer is
doing pretty well, then you're fine. But
I think what the real question is going
to be is now that we have inventory that
has been tariffed, right? We had been
benefiting from people buying ahead
earlier in the year, but now most of the
inventory that's going to be in the
stores is going to have tariffs on it.
It's a question now to the retailers and
to the manufacturers themselves is what
is your acceptable level of
profitability? Are you going to try to
pass on price maybe early on in the
holiday season and then if there is a
weakness in demand, do you start to
discount aggressively? Julie, how much
can you extrapolate a macro trend from
these specific company reports? The idea
that if some of these companies are able
to pass along price increases that makes
you think, okay, maybe inflation can run
a little bit hotter and I should do
something with my overweight duration.
I think it's a function of mosaicing in
terms all of the information, right?
What you're trying to do is put together
a really cohesive picture and often what
ends up happening is that the
idiosyncratic things of a certain
retailer will actually kind of throw you
off. It's not that, you know, Target is
the the customer that Target is serving
is actually doing that badly. It's just
that their execution is poor, for
example. Or it's not that certain
retailers like say a Lululemon are
really struggling to get product that
people care about means that their
consumer is weak. So, it's not that you
want to be overly dependent on a single
comment, but just like we were talking
about with the restaurants, they're
having trouble being able to push price.
you're able to draw certain conclusions
about certain segments of the income
population and then make a decision
about where you think the health really
is
>> based on the fact that some of these
specific companies can be noise in terms
of the overall macro signal. How much of
a liability is it for you that we
haven't gotten the government data that
a lot of people rely on that we might
never get some of the data points?
>> Yeah, I I think that that is probably
the hardest point right now is that we
already the quality of the data was
already not excellent, right? We can
kind of all agree about that. But not
having it at all makes it really really
difficult. And some of the newer data
series that we're getting like
Challenger, you know, they haven't
really been tested in terms of getting a
strong sense that you're there's a lot
of signal to be gained. And so not
having the economic data and the jobs
data in particular most recently to me
that makes me pretty uncomfortable
because I don't think we're going to
really have it. I think we're just going
to be looking forward with data and
hopefully that gives us some indication.
But we basically have this air pocket
where we don't really know what's
happening in the economy and we have
fears in terms of all of these layoff
notices that we've been getting.
>> Julie Bill of Kane Anderson Runick.
Julie, thank you. Referring of course to
the challenger job cuts of the last week
which I might have described as tier
three or Tier 4 data and I got this
message from a Bloomberg subscriber who
said NFP was revised down by something
like a million jobs in the last year or
so. Which data is tier 4 exactly? You
know, this is the point that a lot of
people have been talking about, which is
non-farm payrolls is highly imperfect
and often is revised in a significant
way. And yet, without it, life is so
lonely. It doesn't have the cadence.
>> Well, Fridays, I'm with you. The rhythm
and the cadence of financial markets.
That first Friday of the month, you get
payrolls data. Just sets the foundation
for the conversation for the month
ahead. And then in about 12 months time,
everything gets revised and those
conversations were um maybe misplaced.
>> Look, the cadence, right?
>> That's the cadence. and at least we can
play into the cadence. And right now
without it, people are getting sort of
whizzed around when it comes to
challenger job cuts or ADP weekly data
that doesn't have a long historical
series that really it relies upon. So
you start looking at these data points
and you start wondering is this
introducing more volatility than it's
worth into the market.
>> Certainly putting more emphasis on
things that we wouldn't traditionally
put emphasis on. Equities this morning
positive by let's call it 3 410 of 1% on
the S&P 500. Higher by.37. Let's give
you an update on news worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara.
Hi, Yahihara.
>> Hi, John. The US House of
Representatives is gearing up for a vote
to end the longest shutdown in US
history. The short-term funding bill was
reached after senators agreed to
compromise on a plan that will fund the
government through the end of January.
The measure would reinstate federal
workers fired during the shutdown and
guarantee back pay for furled employees.
Meanwhile, supporters for UK's Prime
Minister Kier Starmer have privately
accused Health Secretary Wes Streing of
plotting a leadership challenge against
Starmer. Streing has dismissed the
allegations as not true and repeatedly
reaffirms his support for the prime
minister in an interview. The reports
come just weeks before the government is
due to unveil a contentious budget. and
aviation leaders saying flight schedules
won't immediately bounce back after the
government reopens, adding that residual
effects will be felt for days. And
transport transportation secretary Shawn
Duffy is offering no timeline of when
flight restrictions might end. Tune in
later at 12:10 p.m. Eastern for Lisa's
interview with Delta Airlines CEO Ed
Bastion here on Bloomberg TV. That's
your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Yeah, thank you. Looking forward to it.
Ed Bastion of Delta coming up on the
program later on this afternoon. I asked
this question yesterday outside of Delta
and maybe United Airlines. What is left
of this industry right now? They are in
a world of pain.
>> And when you take a look at the likes of
Delta, how much of their revenue and
profits come from the premium cabin as
well as loyalty? It is an increasing
proportion of their overall
profitability. How far can we push that?
How far can we see that go where
suddenly the bulk of the plane is
premium and the capacity in the back is
smaller and really all the profitability
comes from there. Is this the model or
is this going to hit some sort of uh
stopping point?
>> Don't miss that conversation at about
12:10 Eastern time later on this
afternoon. Lisa catching up with Ed
Bastion of Down Airlines. Up next on the
program, the morning calls plus AMD
rising on expected sales growth. That
stock is higher by more than 6% this
morning. live from New York City. Good
morning.
[Music]
In terms of this new infrastructure
buildout, the demand exceeds the supply
for the next 3 years. The demand is so
strong actually you're and you're being
underwritten by very very high quality
borrowers today. These hyperscalers are
there are better credit rating than
France. That was Hugh Vanis of Oliver Wy
and the capital needs for the AI
buildout are absolutely massive and
they're growing day by day. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 this morning
positive by 0.4% 4% up by 0.6 on the
NASDAQ. Thank you AMD. Let's get you
some morning calls with that one stock
in focus. First up, Wells Fargo raising
its price target on the stock to 345,
citing a stronger than expected
financial framework. Next up, Missou
raising its price target on AMD to 285,
forecasting sales growth through 2030.
And finally, Evercore raising its price
target on the stock to 283, citing
optimism around its ramp and share gain.
Stock Lisa up by 6%.
>> Again, I can't get over the dissonance
between today and a week ago after they
reported earnings and people came out
and said it was good but not good
enough. And you know, this could be a
bubble, the B-word, right? And so
there's this question of what's changed
from then to now. This has been a stock
that's been absolutely outperforming so
far this year. It also has shown that it
is outperforming on the underlying
fundamental backdrop. Last week it
wasn't good enough. This week it looks
pretty good.
>> This morning it's driving this stock
high. The CEO Lisa Sue expecting
accelerating sales growth on strong
demand for data centers. Joining us now
is Mandep Singh of Bloomberg
Intelligence. Mandep good morning sir.
Big move for that name. What's behind
it?
>> Well, I think what they did yesterday
was to give specific targets in terms of
uh what the growth uh trajectory may
look like through 2030. That wasn't the
case when they reported their quarter.
And look, I think the thesis here is a
lot of the existing systems are going to
be rewritten with a GPU or an
accelerator framework in mind. And you
know, you can talk about the new AI
applications that will come to the scene
and some of them have, you know,
including chat GPT and cursor and
whatnot. But rewriting existing systems
with GPUs or accelerators that is the
type of driver that will take this
market to a trillion dollars by 2030 and
AMD's prior forecast was 500 billion. So
clearly they see something on the
horizon in terms of what's going to
carry the demand you know through 2030.
>> Mand can we talk about the source of
that demand? How much of this hinges on
the spending commitments of one company
say open AI going forward from here?
Well, so uh look, I I think there are a
lot of questions uh to AMD around that 6
gawatt uh you know contract with uh open
AAI and how it's going to build out
given open AAI doesn't have a strong
balance sheet like the other
hyperscalers but in the end if compute
is needed for all the existing
applications that we run then you know
you can finance it whether the
hyperscalers raise debt or you know
there are other entities that come to
you know support this buildout. So it
goes back to the sustainability of
demand and you know you don't want to
risk it to training the next version of
chat GPT's model but you are willing to
uh you know invest if you know it's
going to be used in existing
applications and I think that's a big
difference is you're not pinning your
hopes on these models constantly
improving by you know scaling laws or
something like that and I think that is
what has changed in the past six months.
Mandy, AMD is pretty interesting because
it sits somewhere between Nvidia and
Intel. This idea of the hyperscaler GPUs
versus what we use in our computers and
some of our day-to-day electronics that
people have known. Is AMD eating Intel's
lunch with the profits that it's getting
from the GPU land?
>> So, clearly they talked about how this
GPU wave and the accelerator demand is
also going to drive the traditional CPU
compute. I mean, think about, you know,
an existing workload right now uses a
certain level of compute resources. It's
going to 5x or 10x in the age of AI. And
that applies across any type of
workload. So, from that perspective,
what they're saying is they have the
best CPU right now, better than Intel,
and they will gain share when it comes
to both the CPU market as well as taking
some share from an Nvidia or some of the
accelerators that are out there. But
their value proposition is offering all
types of compute for workloads that are
being deployed at enterprises.
>> I guess another way to frame this mandep
is uh are there going to be winner take
all types of dynamics in the chip space
just based on what kind of scale you
need to really execute and compete in
the space right now. Is it going to be
AMD and Nvidia at the top and everyone
else a two-bit player?
>> I mean I wouldn't take out Google TPUs.
So one of the things we have seen this
year is uh yes Nvidia has done very well
but also Google is looking to
commercialize their TPUs outside of
their own workloads and so from that
perspective the hypers scale threat is
always there for you know Nvidia AMD and
Broadcom because these guys are doing a
lot of things inhouse but with that
being said you know what Nvidia has
shown is they have a clear path to $500
billion in data center revenue and
that's not changing anytime soon even
though competition is there and like I
said Google TPUs is doing well but this
market is large enough that uh you know
all these companies can still do well
>> Mandep did you see some of the
conversation with Brad Gersonner of
Altimeter with Sam Alman and Satia
Nadella you're nodding along so I assume
you did Mandy there was a moment in that
that was kind of uncomfortable
>> Brad asked a really straightforward
question and a very fair question he
talked about the level of revenue right
and compared it to the spending
commitments they had several years out
and asked for an explanation and Sam
Alton became really defensive about it
and essentially turned around to Brad
and said if you want to sell the stock
there'll be someone else that can buy
it. Mandy, I don't think that was a very
good response at all. What was your
impression from Sam Alman's reaction to
a very straightforward question?
>> I think there doubt there is an
acknowledgement that 1.4 Four trillion
spend is a big number especially when
you are at a run rate of 13 billion
dollars in ARR. Yes, you talk about you
know hundred billion dollars in ARR over
the next two years and you're the
fastest growing company but still
there's no doubt that you know it all
hinges on execution and for you know the
private market to underwrite uh a lot of
debt related to that. I mean there is a
lot of executiondriven hope uh that you
know uh your opiner
and and the hyperscalers not being able
to catch up. I mean what Google has
shown this year is not only has Gemini
gotten better but they have a play with
the vertical integration with the chips
that they have the TPUs and from that
perspective you can't just um you know
be assured that open AI will be the
leader throughout this five years and
and so from that perspective I think
it's a fair question to ask and uh look
I I think Samman is confident that the
model will remain uh the leader when it
comes to the frontier models I I mean,
Chinese models are open- source. So,
from that perspective, you could
question the unit economics. And that's
where the biggest question mark is
around open AAI is the unit economics.
Will it be a profitable in dealer when
it uh turns to be hundred billion dollar
run rate company? And and I think right
now it's all upfront spending. So,
that's why I I think it's a fair
question to be asked.
>> Mandy, what are the cash needs of that
company at the moment? I've seen
estimates that it's close to like $500
billion valuations in the private
market. Do you anticipate they will be
going public soon?
>> Well, they are changing that nonprofit
structure and I think with the revised
structure there is a chance that they
will go to the public markets as well.
With that being said, there's no doubt
that this is not uh you know an 80%
gross margin business. This is more of a
40 to 50% gross margin business even at
you know scale that they are talking
about. So the fact that you need a lot
more compute for running your software
just goes to show that you know software
gross margins are not the same as they
used to be and so from that perspective
you have to account for the lower gross
margins of companies and higher spend on
the chip makers which is what we are
seeing in the valuations of Nvidia
Broadcom and all the other peer group of
bloomberg intelligence mand thank you
sir enjoyed this appreciate it thank you
very much if you haven't seen that
conversation with Brad and Satia and
Sam, not my friends. I should use their
full names. You should watch it. It's
actually a really, really interesting,
revealing conversation.
>> Two ways to interpret it. On one hand,
he's got something to hide and he's
frustrated and he's pushing back.
Another way is he gets so much push back
about the spending plans and the
profitability questions around OpenAI
that he's exhausted and that he's just
frustrated with it and he's just saying,
"If you don't believe in my story, then
short my shares once they go public or
try to, you know, get out." And that's I
guess you know the real story of the
market right now.
>> It just felt a bit awkward. Let's put it
that way. Equity futures on the S&P 500
positive by a third of 1%. The opening
bell about an hour away and tech is
doing better than good so far this
morning driven by the latest news out of
AMD. Up next, we'll catch up with Sarah
House of Wells Fargo with Wall Street
hoping for official data to get back to
work. And Danny has some morning movers
for you on holdings up by 8%.
So, first come the tax refunds and then
comes the tariff relief. The Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson speaking right
now and saying that we'll be talking
about substantial tax refunds coming in
early 2026 and saying this on tariff
relief. We're going to unveil tariff
relief on coffee and other items,
bananas and other fruits also set for
tariff relief. affordability is the
dominant word down in Washington DC
right now and it looks like based on
those comments the Treasury Secretary is
responding to them.
>> If people see their coffee prices go
back down, how much does that affect
their feeling about cost of living and
uh just how much prices are going up?
Talking about how they are going to
respond to a spotlight that has been
shown on the fact that people are
worried about inflation, that they're
worried about the absolute cost of
everyday goods. Can you selectively take
tariffs off certain items? Say coffee in
the morning, say your eggs that you have
for breakfast while still keeping them
on in certain areas.
>> You can't hide from that. People
experience those goods every single day.
It's what UBS has talked about. The
frequency bars, you have a coffee every
single morning, you see the price of
that go up, that's going to shape your
view on the economy and on inflation,
regardless of what inflation is
elsewhere. And this is the problem with
the gaslighting of the previous
administration when they were telling
people there wasn't a problem and they
could experience a problem. That is the
issue right here. Don't fall into that
trap. That's the mistake of the Biden
administration. Don't fall into that
trap. Listen to what people are saying.
They're saying they're struggling.
They're saying there's affordability
problem. You've got to respond to it.
Otherwise, you will get crushed.
>> Yeah. Well, President Trump has been
saying that actually prices will go back
down. And how much is this sort of a
push to do that and saying things are
actually pretty good? How do you have
things are pretty good and you get a
$2,000 rebate? I mean, there are a lot
of questions that you have in terms of
coherency of message right now, but
nonetheless, what really is the main
driver right now is cost of living is
going to cause policies to shift. And
that is what we're seeing in Washington
DC
>> on that $2,000 rebate. This headline
just crossing, the president talking
about a $2,000 rebate for families
earning under $100,000. The president
alluded to that over the weekend. It
feels like this is moving forward, like
this might actually turn into real
policy. I'd like to see exactly how that
factors into the tax policy that's
already planned and what that does in
terms of the budgeting around some of uh
what has already been proposed and what
exists because that is going to be the
focus of the bond market.
>> We'll come back to some of these
comments in just a moment. Just to take
the temperature of the equity market
doing okay up by a third of 1% on the
S&P on the NASDAQ up by 0.6 with some
single names and morning movers. Let's
cross over to Danny for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Can't keep some of these cloud
and AI names down for too long.
Coreweave on the back of a very bad day
yesterday where it fell 16% is up 3% in
the pre-market. So not making up for the
entirety of losses but still we are
seeing dip buying. It comes after Corey
gave earnings where their revenue
outlook disappointed and it's lost a
third of its value this month. So a very
tough run for corweto the nuclear energy
company reporting earnings this morning
a boost to their cash and cash
equivalents. that's seen as a positive
alongside the fact that they are
focusing more on Department of Energy
contracts. Dan Eises of Webb Bush saying
that they are powering the nuclear
revolution in the US. So those shares up
just under 3% this morning. Finally on
one of the earnings we had this morning
a huge rally this morning up 11% a beat
in a raise on their behalf. The
strongest regions were Asia and Europe,
but you did see some growth in North
America, a little bit less than
expected, but they pointed out despite
the fact that they raised prices in
July, the tariffs were a big concern,
people are still willing to buy what is
the most expensive running sneaker on
the market. John,
>> stock is up by almost 12%. Danny, thank
you. Looking forward to the program.
Danny Ber and Matt Miller taking over in
about 27 minutes time to guide you into
the opening bout. Let's turn to the
economy. US Secretary Treasury Scott
Besson set to speak at the New York Fed
later on today. Bloomberg's Mike McKe
joins us now for more. Mike, good
morning. Some comments already from the
Treasury Secretary just moments ago.
Yeah, there are two Scott Bessets.
There's the Scott Bessett who has the
Treasury Department responsibilities and
then there's the one who has to defend
the Trump administration on all sorts of
weird topics like coffee and banana
tariffs. Remember, the tariffs were
supposed to be put on things that we
make in America uh that are being
brought in so we'd make more, but we
don't make any coffee or bananas. So,
I'm not sure how great uh a job that
means the administration is doing. Uh
but the nerd uh version of Scott Besson
will be at the Treasury Department
today. It's an annual conference that
the New York Fed puts on uh talking
about the plumbing, the functions of the
Treasury market and they'll be looking
at things like the resiliency of the
market. Uh what's going to happen now
that the Fed is ending QE and uh asking
banks to use the standing uh open market
the uh repo facility on a regular basis
that sort of thing. Uh I don't think
we're going to get a political speech
from Bessant at this meeting, although
he might talk some about uh the
president's fiscal policies and uh what
they might mean for debt for the US and
there are other issues that uh the
Treasury Department has including what
they're going to do about buybacks. Are
they going to buy more debt back than
they have? And where are they going to
issue along the Treasury curve going
forward now that the Fed is not the uh
buyer of last resort?
>> Mike, we've seen some acknowledgement
though this morning from the Treasury
Secretary that people are struggling and
they need to adjust. We're talking about
tariff relief, tax rebates. That's
something new in the last few weeks.
Yeah, it it is new because the Democrats
did very well running on those issues in
the midter the off-year election call it
and uh the administration seems to have
pivoted very quickly to try to grab that
issue back and you're going to hear a
lot from all of the members of the
administration who are talking about
this and Bessant is one of those who is
on television a lot so he's going to be
uh pushing those issues but of course uh
he doesn't have anything to do with
tariffs and uh the idea of the
dividends. We don't exactly know what
that means. Uh so I suppose he'll get
asked about that a lot as well.
>> Mike, thank you sir. Looking forward to
your coverage. Mike McKe of Bloomberg.
This is what Jared Seabour of TD Cowan
said last week and I keep going back to
this quote and I keep giving Jared a
shout out. We expect Democrats will make
the economy the key message heading into
the midterm election. The president may
respond by embracing populist policies
including some he raised during the
campaign. There's a slow turn emerging
here down in Washington.
>> Yeah. Including checks, $2,000 checks to
people who earn under $100,000. Uh this
is going to raise a question around the
economic profile of the first quarter.
If people do get checks, these are
people who are predisposed to spend more
of that money, which will find its way
more quickly into the economy. And it
also raises questions longer term, what
kind of policies are actually going to
get through? Here's the view of Sarah
House of Wells Fargo, writing, "The
absence of broad-based layoffs suggests
the jobs market is holding together,
even if the risk of a more meaningful
slowdown cannot be ruled out." Sarah
joined us now for more. Sarah, welcome
to the show. Just to pick up on those
headlines from the Treasury Secretary,
if we start seeing $2,000 tax rebates,
if we see significant relief early next
year, how would that change your
outlook?
Yeah. So, I think already we're looking
for a pickup next year just because you
have some pretty favorable tax policy
coming out where consumers are going to
get pretty big refunds come the early
part of the year. And so if you add
$2,000 rebate checks on top of that, I
think you would get a meaningful pickup
in spending through the first few months
of of the year, that could help, I
think, balance out, I think, more of the
the components of of GDP that that we're
seeing where maybe it's at least
temporarily uh a broader based increase
in in overall consumption rather than
one that's being driven more by your
your asset owning higher income
households. Sarah, we saw a taste of
this and I know it's not the same thing,
but during the pandemic era checks that
people got and a lot of people attribute
the inflation that we saw in the
pandemic era to some of those particular
checks. Do you think that there will be
a similar dynamic or do you think these
are too small and not regular enough to
have that kind of transmission
mechanism?
>> Well, I think there are a couple
important differences there. So yes, if
you're injecting cash directly into
households, especially your lower inome
households, they're going to go and turn
around and and spend that. But there's
other sides of this that that are
different. So you don't have the same
degree of supply constraints. You don't
have, I think, the the labor supply
issues that we had at that time where it
wasn't just the increase in demand that
I think led to the pandemic era
inflation, but it was some pretty unique
supply factor. So, I think overall
rebate checks, the even the uh the
larger tax refunds that we're expecting,
I think that's going to make it harder
for inflation to continue to to grind
lower, but I don't think that it would
be something that would necessarily
respspark a sustained uh a sustained
pickup in in inflation. Again, I think
it would just more uh more derail the
the path or at least uh slow the path of
disinflation that's that's set for the
second half of next year. Sarah, the
implication here is faster growth and
potentially an expanded fiscal deficit
in order to finance a lot of the
programs that are being proposed, likely
will be proposed heading into the
midterms, not just by uh one party,
frankly, both parties talking about
similar types of responses. How are you
factoring that into your economic
outlook at a time where there already
have been some concerns raised about the
US fiscal trajectory?
>> Right. So, I think again, if we're
talking about one-off checks, this is
only a temporary boost. So this is not
something that's going to be
fundamentally sustaining the the outlook
for for the consumer and to the extent
that it does increase the the deficit
then you're going to be seeing some of
that feedback into into yields which is
also going to flow through to other
things. So potentially mortgage rates
and so it's not a panacea for I think
really reviving econ the the sluggish
pace of of growth that we think we're
hitting here in the fourth quarter maybe
in some of the early parts of of the
first quarter given that there are going
to be some feedback sides of this and in
terms of what happens with with
borrowing costs.
>> Sarah what should anchor our view of the
labor market right now? I think that's
the question of the year for the labor
market. Employment growth super low. The
unemployment rate is also low as well.
Do you think the employment growth maybe
overstates the weakness or does the
unemployment rate overstate the
strength?
>> Yeah, so I think the the hiring rate I
think it does overstate the weakness
given that some of this is supply, but I
think we can't chalk it all up to the
immigration story for example or just
the ongoing population aging where we
are seeing demand continue to weaken. So
look at Indeed postings, look at the
PMIs, whether it's the ISMS or the Fed
still showing employment in contraction
in contraction territory. And so I think
there still is a a demand problem here.
And I think even if that break even rate
is lower, that still portends something
for what's happening with with household
income and therefore spending power. But
when we step back and I think at that
that main point that we need to keep in
mind, it is where we are in terms of
that overall balance. That's what's the
Fed is is looking at. And I think there
we are seeing some softening but not in
a in a material or or quick way. So it's
just this gradual ongoing softening
that's keeping the Fed on edge but not
definitive in terms of the labor market
really being in trouble here.
>> Sarah, what is your best guess for the
Federal Reserve on December 10th?
>> So we still have that they'll cut
another 25 basis points. So obviously
that's a close call where it doesn't
look like we're going to get even the
November data that we usually would have
had with the shutdown ending. I think
the CPI, we're not going to have that
for November. It's going to be a close
call of whether you get November
employment, but I think the overall
position of look, we need to move closer
to neutral inflation. Yes, it's being
temporarily held up by by tariffs, but
you're not seeing that spill over into
services path there is is still lower. I
think that still supports the argument
of moving towards neutral. And I think
when you look at the voter composition
too that some of the more outspoken
hawks are the people who have come out
and said, "Look, I'm I'm having trouble
supporting another cut." They're not
voters. So I think when push comes to
shove, we'll get that additional 25
basis point cuts in December.
>> A few of them will be voters next year.
So we'll see what happens for next year.
Sarah, thank you. Sarah House of Wells
Fargo setting up December. So we
probably won't have CPI and it'll be
close call if we get November payrolls.
That's what Sarah just said just then.
>> Yeah. And frankly, we just got a note
from Andrew Hollenhorst over at Croup
saying that we could get the September
jobs report maybe in the next few days.
The October jobs report might be delayed
until early December. So then, you know,
imagine that you're not going to get the
November report on time either. Think
about people getting back to work being
asked to work overtime and there are 30%
fewer people in those offices. It's
going to be kind of messy down there.
>> Yeah. We go from flying blind to driving
in the rearview mirror.
>> Exactly.
>> It's going to be fun, isn't it?
>> Well, it's Yeah. Foggy driving. That
sounds like a nightmare. God. Yeah,
December 10th is going to be an
interesting one. Plus, they're going to
put out some projections as well, some
guesses about the future. So, that'll be
fun for them and everyone on the FOMC.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahira. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson saying just moments ago to expect
substantial news on President Trump's
sweeping tariffs in the coming days. He
said the administration is planning
tariff relief on coffee, bananas, and
other fruits. He also said the president
is considering a $2,000 tariff rebate
for American families making less than
$100,000.
Meanwhile, City is selling its banking
operations inside Russia to investment
bank Renaissance Capital after an order
from President Vladimir Putin. City
Group announced back in 2022 that it
would wind down its consumer and
commercial banking operations in Russia
following the invasion of Ukraine. The
Russian government confirmed the sale,
but offered no other details. And Wall
Street's elite are heading to the White
House for a dinner with President Trump
later this evening. JP Morgan's Jamie
Diamond, NASDAQ's Adena Freriedman, and
Goldman Sachs David Solomon will be
among those attending. The dinner comes
as Trump faces rising pressure on the
economy and affordability, testing his
relationship with business leaders.
Patrick Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahar, thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks
for this morning. Up next on the
program, we'll set you up for the day
ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with Ivy
Zman of Zelman and Associates as
President Donald Trump's 50-year
mortgage plan is losing steam.
[Music]
Housing today is threequarters of the
wealth. If you actually get the mortgage
rate down a bit, then what happens is
all of a sudden you get housing
velocity. Why is housing velocity
important? Because you get labor
mobility. For every home built in this
country, we hire 3.1 people. It's pretty
hard to AI building a house. So if you
can get some real estate velocity, and
by the way, it's the way young people
who are struggling today, young people
who aren't savers, who are borrowers,
that's the way they build wealth. That's
the way you put people to work.
>> Rick Reader of Black Rockck weigh in on
the housing market a little bit earlier
on this morning on Bloomberg survey. And
sticking with housing, the president has
got a 50-year mortgage plan and is
struggling to gain traction in the
industry. Ivy Zelman of Zelman, a Walker
and Dunlock company writing, "While
pushing for better affordability is a
good fight to fight, the likelihood of a
policy moving the needle on home buyer
affordability in a tangible way is quite
low in our view." Ivy joins us now for
more. Ivy, welcome to the program.
You've experienced it all in housing.
What was your reaction to the prospect
of a 50-year mortgage?
>> Well, it's good to see the
administration is trying to help, you
know, today's prospective buyers by
improving affordability, but I think we
have a lot of impediments with a 50-year
mortgage. To begin with, uh, while the
monthly payment, if you just took the
same mortgage rate, same home price,
would actually go down, the problem is
by adding two more decades, investors
that would have to purchase those loans
would require a higher rate. our
mortgage contacts that we survey think
that rate would probably be close to 35
to 50 basis points higher than the uh
30-year fixed mortgage rate. Therefore,
sort of um wiping out the benefit um not
entirely but most of that benefit. But
even more importantly, right now because
of DoddFrank that was passed in 2014, uh
Fanny and Freddy who purchased more than
half of the loans that are originated in
this country cannot purchase a loan
that's has a duration longer than 30
years. So we would need uh congressional
um approvement to have that to come to
fruition. And lastly, I think that
today's consumer while entry- level
buyers think about monthly payment. So
any reduction is helpful, it is the
long-term how to build wealth because
people really don't save. So by owning a
home and long-term equity appreciation
is a way to create wealth. By having a
50-year mortgage, you're definitely
going to create a lot less equity over
time or or have equity appreciation. So,
I think those are some of the concerns
that we have and I think that right now
the industry has poo pooed it enough
that it's losing steam with the
administration.
>> Ivy, what do you think the solution is?
I'm sure there's not a magic one, but
what would you implement? What would the
remedy be?
>> Well, I think housing it's rather
complex and just looking at one variable
to assume that that would help ignite um
more activity. I think the builders are
doing everything they can to provide
more affordable housing, predominantly
using mortgage rate buyowns, which has
been a very successful um strategy to
keep velocity or growth um growing
despite rates and affordability being at
the worst levels in 40 years. But really
the impediments for more housing,
mortgage rates have to come down or
incomes have to rise more or you have to
have home prices come down. So it's
really not a magic one variable
solution. We do think most of the
impediments for building more at more
affordable prices come at the local
market level.
>> Ivy, do you think that if interest rates
were to go lower and mortgage rates were
to follow suit that it would cause
housing prices to go up or go down
because it would allow people to move
who have been locked in their homes?
>> I think mortgage rates going down would
actually help. I don't know about how
much a home price appreciation we would
get. I do think that right now consumers
are locked in at much lower rates than
prevailing rates. We we looked at really
what would affordability where would we
get back to trend line and mortgage
rates would have to fall to roughly four
and a half percent so quite a ways from
where we are today to just get back to
sort of a median level of affordability.
>> Ivy, have you done any studies that show
how many people own homes who want to
move but can't or don't want to because
simply mortgage rates are too high and
they don't have other options.
We haven't done a study to that, but I
can point out that u more than 70% of
homeowners have a mortgage rate that is
lower than 5% that hold a mortgage and
roughly half have a mortgage rate below
4 and a half. So there's quite a bit of
stickiness and in many markets in the
country, inventory has risen in the
southern part of the country, mostly
Texas, Florida. So there's more choices,
but then the uh challenge is that
consumers are worried that they're
buying at at the top. Whereas in some
markets like in the Midwest and
Northeast, inventories are still very
tight. So when people are trying to
move, they're like, "Where am I supposed
to go? There's not product on the
market." So we have a bit of a tale of
two geographies as well as a tale of two
price points where the high-end is doing
pretty well and the entry level is still
really challenged. Ivy, this is really a
conundrum because at the same time that
everyone's saying we need more supply.
When you hear from home builders, their
sentiment is terrible. They can't seem
to uh feel the motivated to go out there
and build. So, what will motivate them
to want to build given the fact that
there seems to be plenty of demand to
buy homes and it seems like there's
insufficient supply?
Well, I might beg to differ there
because overall today for the new
construction market that accounts for
about 15% of transactions, there is a um
a very high level of speculative
inventory on the market. In fact, it's
um near 2009 uh peak levels. So, I think
there's plenty of inventory and builders
are very motivated to sell homes. They
do not want to sit on finished lots
given very high carry cost, overall cost
of of sitting on lots. So, they want to
go vertical. The challenges are they
have impediments from local governments
that require um many many factors that
keep them from being able to go
vertical. So I can go through those but
the reality is is that we need governors
to pressure local markets to reduce
those impediments and then builders will
be able to go vertical. So many just one
example is just getting a permit.
Getting a permit or getting entitlements
could take weeks or months in some
markets. So it's really not the
builders. The onus is on the local
markets. Ivy, well said and great
framing. It's good to see you. Thanks
for being here. Ivy Zman there of Zelman
and Associates. Affordability as the
center of every single debate right now
in this economy and we'll have that
conversation later on today. Delta
Airlines CEO Ed Bastian catching up with
Bloomberg TV and our very own Bremo at
12:10 Eastern time. Don't miss that
conversation. I've said this is the
Delta Airlines economy. Half the country
thinks it's Group One. The other half is
struggling to afford to pay the ticket
to get in the main cabin. Yeah, there
are two parts of this conversation. On
one hand, the government shutdown. Just
how quickly will it take for everything
to get back to normal? Will we have our
Thanksgiving holidays with our families?
But then there is this question around
the K-shaped economy and the fact that
60% of their revenue comes from the
premium and loyalty uh aspects of their
job. This highlights why they have been
so successful, why they are the
preeminent airline. And it goes to the
question, how far can this go? Is this
something that just structurally is the
new reality that a lot of different
companies are facing? Are you diamond
medallion?
>> That's all anyone wants to know. Bramo,
>> you know, I'm actually a diamond
medallion.
>> I'm here. How could I be diamond? Where
am I flying to?
>> Got to do a lot of flying to make it
diamond medallion.
>> I think that you'd have to do a lot of
flying. I think I'd rather spend
>> That's the highest status of diamond.
>> Yeah, there's diamond. And then there's
sort of like the mystery categories.
Okay, there's one above that.
>> I, you know, I'm sure that you don't
even know how you can get it. Okay.
>> Where it comes from, but things happen
to you. I do get a handwritten note
though that
write something for you. the flight
attendant will say, you know, thank you
for flying, etc. There is this feeling
that, you know, loyalty really is the
way to capture uh capture people and
lock them in.
>> Looking forward to the conversation
later on today. Locked in 12:10 Eastern
time with Ed Bastian of Doutter Airlines
tomorrow. Here's the lineup for you.
Keith Learner of Truist, Eric Johnson of
Canada Fitzgerald, Kevin Gordon of
Charles SW, plus Tiffany Wilding of
Pimco from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. Have a
wonderful day ahead. Thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV. And this was
Bloomberg surveillance.
[Music]
Day three at the Neto ATP finals. Carlos
Alcarez remains unbeaten after a
thrilling three- set win over Taylor
Fritz. The top seed fought back from a
set down against the American, closing
it out 6-3 in the third. Later, Lorenzo
Meti wowed the home fans in Churin with
his first win of the tournament. The
Italian closing out a dramatic victory
75 in the decider over Alex Dimmanu.